(Slip Opinion)  OCTOBER TERM, 2018 1 
 
Syllabus 
NOTE: Where it is feasible, a syllabus (headnote) will be released, as is 
being done in connection with this case, at the time the opinion is issued.  
The syllabus constitutes no part of  the opinion of t he Court but has been 
prepared by the Reporter of Decisions for the convenience of the reader.  
See United States v. Detroit Timber & Lumber Co.,  200 U. S. 321, 337.  
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES  
Syllabus 
AMERICAN LEGION ET AL. v. AMERICAN HUMANIST 
ASSN. ET AL. 
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR 
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT 
No. 17–1717. Argued February 27, 2019—Decided June 20, 2019* 
In 1918, residents of Prince George’s County, Maryland, formed a 
committee for the purpose of er ecting a memorial for the county’s sol-
diers who fell in World War I .  The committee decided that the me-
morial should be a cross , which was not surprising since the p lain 
Latin cross  had become a central symbol of the war.  The image of 
row after row of pla in white crosses marking the overseas graves of 
soldiers was emblazoned on the minds of Americans at home.  The 
memorial would stand at the terminus of another World War I m e-
morial—the National Defense Highway connecting Washington to 
Annapolis.  When the committee ran out of funds, the local American 
Legion took over the project, completing the memorial in 1925.  The 
32-foot tall Latin cross displays the American Legion’s emblem at its 
center and sits on a large pedestal bearing, inter alia , a bronze 
plaque that lists the names of the 49 county soldiers who had fallen 
in the war.  At the dedication ceremony, a Catholic priest offered an 
invocation and a Baptist pastor offered a benedic tion.  The Bladens-
burg Cross (Cross) has since been the site of patriotic events honoring 
veterans on , e.g., V eterans Day, Memorial Day, and Independence 
Day.  Monuments  honoring the veterans of other conflicts have been 
added in a park near the Cross.  As the area around the Cross deve l-
oped, the monument came to be at  the center of a busy intersection.  
In 1961, the Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commis-
sion (Commission) acquired the Cross and the land where it sits, but 
—————— 
* Together with No. 18 –18, Maryland-National Capital Park and 
Planning Commission v. American Humanist Assn. et al., also on cert i-
orari to the same court. 

2 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Syllabus 
the American Legion reserved the right to continue using the site for 
ceremonies.  The Commission has used public funds to maintain the 
monument ever since. 
  In 2014, the American Humanist Association (AHA)  and others 
filed suit in District Court, alleging that the Cross’s presence on pub-
lic land and the Commission’s maintenance of the memorial viol ate 
the First Amendment’s Establishment Clause.  The American Legion 
intervened to defend the Cross.  The District Court granted summary 
judgment for the Commission and the American Legion , concluding 
that the Cross satisfies both the test announced in Lemon v. Kurtz-
man, 403 U. S. 602, and the analysis applied by J USTICE BREYER in 
upholding a Ten Commandments monument in Van Orden v. Perry, 
545 U. S. 677.  The Fourth Circuit reversed.  
Held: The judgment is reversed and remanded. 
874 F. 3d 195, reversed and remanded. 
 J USTICE ALITO delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to 
Parts I, II–B, II–C, III, and IV , concluding that the Bladensburg 
Cross does not violate the Establishment Clause.  Pp. 16–24, 28–31. 
 (a) At least four considerations show that retaining established, re-
ligiously expressive monuments, symbols, and practices is quite di f-
ferent from erecting or adopting new ones.  First , these cases often 
concern monuments, symbols, or practices that were first established 
long ago, and thus, identifying their original purpose or purposes 
may be especially difficult.  See Salazar v. Buono, 559 U. S. 700.  
Second, as time goes by, the purposes associated with an established 
monument, symbol, or practice often multiply , as in the Ten Com-
mandments monum ents a ddressed in Van Orden  and McCreary 
County v. American Civil Liberties Union of Ky., 545 U. S. 844.  Even 
if the monument’s original purpose was infused with religion, the 
passage of time may obscure that sentiment  and the monument may 
be retained for the sake of its historical significance or its place in a 
common cultural heritage .  Third, the message of a monument, sym-
bol, or practice may evolve,  Pleasant Grove City  v. Summum, 555 
U. S. 460, 477, as is the case with a city name like Bethlehem, Pen n-
sylvania; Arizona’s motto “Ditat Deus” (“God enriches”), adopted in 
1864; or Maryland’s flag, which has included two crosses since 1904.  
Familiarity itself can become a reason for preservation.  Fourth, 
when time’s passage imbues a religiously expressive m onument, 
symbol, or practice with this kind of familiarity and historical signif i-
cance, removing it may no longer appear neutral, especially to the l o-
cal community.  The passage of time thus gives rise to a strong pr e-
sumption of constitutionality.  Pp. 16–21. 
 (b) The cross is a symbol closely linked to World War I.  The United 
States adopted it as part of its military honors, establishing the Di s-

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 3 
 
Syllabus 
tinguished Service Cross and the Navy Cross in 1918 and 1919, re-
spectively.  And the fallen soldiers’ final resting places abroad were 
marked by white crosses or Stars of David , a solemn image that be-
came inextricably linked with and symbolic of the ultimate price pai d 
by 116,000 soldiers.  This  relationship between the cross and the war 
may not have been the sole or dominant motivation for the design of 
the many war memorials that sprang up across the Nation , but that 
is all but impossible to determine today.  The passage of time means 
that testimony from the decisionmakers may not be available.  And 
regardless of the original purposes for erecting the monument,  a 
community may wish to preserve it for very different reasons, such as 
the historic preservation and traffic-safety concerns  noted here.  The 
area surrounding a monument like the Bladensburg Cross may al so 
have been altered in ways that change its meaning and provide new 
reasons for its preservation .  Even the AHA recognizes that the mo n-
ument’s surroundings are important, as it concedes that the presence 
of a cross monument in a cemetery is unobjectionabl e.  But a  memo-
rial’s placement in a cemetery is not necessary to create the connec-
tion to those it honors .  Memorials took the place of gravestones  for 
those parents and other relatives who lacked the means to  travel to 
Europe to visit the  graves of their war dead and for those soldiers 
whose bodies were never recovered.  Similarly, memorials and mo n-
uments honoring important historical figures e.g., Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr., often include a symbol of the faith that was important to 
the persons whose lives are commemorated.  Finally, as World War I 
monuments have endured through the years and become a familiar 
part of the p hysical and cultural landscape, requiring their removal 
or alteration would not be viewed by many as a neutral act.  Few 
would say that California is attempting to convey a religious message 
by retaining the many city names, like Los Angeles and San Diego, 
given by the  original Spanish settlers .  But it would be something 
else entirely if the State undertook to change those names.  Much the 
same is true about monuments to soldiers who sacrificed their lives 
for this country more than a century ago.  Pp. 21–24. 
 (c) Applying these principles  here, the Bladensburg Cross does not 
violate the Establishment Clause.  The image of the simple wood en 
cross that originally marked the graves of American soldiers killed in 
World War I became a symbol of their sacrifice, and the design of the 
Bladensburg Cross must be understood in light of that background.  
That the cross originated as a Christian symb ol and retains that 
meaning in many contexts does  not change the fact that the symbol 
took on an added secular meaning when used in World War I mem o-
rials.  The Cross  has also acquired historical importance with the 
passage of time, reminding the townspeopl e of the deeds and sacrific-

4 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Syllabus 
es of their predecessors as it stands among memorials to veterans of 
later wars.  It has thus become part of the community .  It would not 
serve that role had  its design deliberately disrespected area soldiers, 
but there is no evi dence that the names of any area Jewish soldiers 
were either intentionally  left off the memorial’s list or included 
against the wishes of their families.  The AHA  tries to connect the 
Cross and the American Legion with anti -Semitism and the Ku Klux 
Klan, but the monument, which was dedicated during a period of 
heightened racial and religious animosity , includes the names of both 
Black and White soldiers ; and both Catholic and Baptist clergy pa r-
ticipated in the dedication.  It is also natural and appropriat e for a 
monument commemorating the death of particular individuals  to in-
voke the symbols that signify what death meant for those who are 
memorialized.  Excluding those symbols could make the  memorial 
seem incomplete.  This explains why Holocaust memorials invariably 
feature a Star of David or other symbols of Judaism and why the 
memorial at issue features the same symbol that marks the graves of 
so many soldiers near the battlefi elds where they fell.  Pp. 28–30. 
 (d) The fact that the cross is undoubtedly a  Christian symbol  
should not blind one  to everything else that the Bladensburg Cross 
has come to represent : a symbolic resting place for ancestors who 
never returned home, a place for the community to gather and honor 
all veter ans and their sacrifices for this Nation, and a  historical 
landmark.  For many, destroying or defacing the Cross would not be 
neutral and would not further the ideals of respect and tolerance e m-
bodied in the First Amendment.  P. 31. 
 J
USTICE A LITO, joined by T HE C HIEF JUSTICE, JUSTICE BREYER, and 
JUSTICE KAVANAUGH, conclu ded in Parts II–A and II–D: 
 (a) Lemon ambitiously attempted to fashion a test for all  Estab-
lishment Clause cases.  The test called on courts to examine the pur-
poses and effects of a challenged government action, as well as any 
entanglement with religion that it might entail .  The expectation of a 
ready framework has not been met, and the Court has many times ei-
ther expressly declined to apply the test or simply ignored it.  See, 
e.g., Zobrest v. Catalina Foothills Sc h. Dist., 509 U. S. 1; Town of 
Greece v. Galloway, 572 U. S. 565.  Pp. 12–16. 
 (b) The Lemon Court ambitiously attempted to find a grand unified 
theory of the Establishment Clause, but the Court has since taken a 
more modest approach that focuses on the pa rticular issue at hand 
and looks to history for guidance .  The cases involving prayer before 
legislative sessions are illustrative.  In Marsh v. Chambers, 463 U. S. 
783, the Court upheld a State Legislature’s practice of beginning each 
session with a praye r by an official chaplain, finding it highly persua-
sive that Congress for over  200 years had opened its sessions with a 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 5 
 
Syllabus 
prayer and that many state l egislatures had followed suit.   And the 
Court in Town of Greece reasoned that the historical practice of ha v-
ing, since the First Congress, chaplains in Congress showed “that the 
Framers considered legislative prayer a benign acknowledgment of 
religion’s role in society.”  572  U. S., at 576.  Where monuments, 
symbols, and practices with a longstanding history follow in the tra-
dition of the First Congress in respecting and tolerating different 
views, endeavoring to achieve inclusivity and nondiscrimination, and 
recognizing the important role religion plays in the lives of many 
Americans, they are likewise constitutional.  Pp. 24–28. 
 J
USTICE THOMAS, agreeing that the Bladensburg Cross is constit u-
tional, concluded:  
 (a) The text and history of the Clause—which reads “Congress 
shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion” —suggest 
that it should not be incorporated against the States.  When the 
Court incorporated the Clause in Everson  v. Board of Ed. of Ewing , 
330 U. S. 1, 15, it  apparently did not consider that an incorporated 
Establishment Clause would prohibit exactly what the text of the 
Clause seeks to protect: state establishments of religion.  The appr o-
priate question is whether any longstanding right of citizenship re-
strains the States in the establishment context.  Further confounding 
the incorporation question is the fact that the First Amendment by 
its terms applies only to “law[s]” enacted by “Congress.”  Pp. 1–3. 
 (b) Even if the Clause applied to state and local gover nments in 
some fashion, “[t]he mere presence of the monument along [respon d-
ents’] path involves no [actual legal] coercion,” the sine qua non of an 
establishment of religion.  Van Orden  v. Perry, 545 U. S. 677, 694 
(opinion of T
HOMAS, J.).  The plaintiff c laiming an unconstitutional 
establishment of religion must demonstrate that he was actually co-
erced by government conduct that shares the characteristics of an e s-
tablishment as understood at the founding.  Respondents have not 
demonstrated that maintaining  a religious display on public property 
shares any of the historical characteristics of an establishment of re-
ligion.  Town of Greece v. Galloway, 572 U. S. 565, 608 (same).  The 
Bladensburg Cross is constitutional even though the cross has rel i-
gious significance.  Religious displays or speech need not be limited to 
those considered nonsectarian.  Insisting otherwise is inconsistent 
with this Nation’s history and traditions, id., at 578– 580 (majority 
opinion), and would force the courts “to act as superviso rs and ce n-
sors of religious speech,” id., at 581.  Pp. 3–5. 
 (c) The plurality rightly rejects the relevance of the test set forth in 
Lemon v. Kurtzman, 403 U. S. 602, 612– 613, to claims like this one, 
which involve religiously expressive monuments, symbol s, displays, 
and similar practices, but J
USTICE THOMAS would take the logical 

6 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Syllabus 
next step and overrule the Lemon  test  in all contexts.  The  test has 
no basis in the original meaning of the Constitution; it has “been ma-
nipulated to fit whatever result the Court aimed to achieve, ” 
McCreary County v. American Civil Liberties Union of Ky. , 545 U. S. 
844, 900 (Scalia, J., dissenting); and it continues to cause enormous 
confusion in the States and the lower courts.  Pp. 6–7. 
 J USTICE GORSUCH, joined by JUSTICE THOMAS, concludes that a suit  
like this one should be dismissed for lack of standing.  Pp. 1–11. 
 (a) The American Humanist Associat ion claims that its members  
come into regular, unwelcome contact with the Bladensburg Cross 
when they drive through the area, but this “offended observer” theory 
of standing has no basis in law.  To establish standing to sue co n-
sistent with the Constitution, a plaintiff must show: (1) injury-in-fact, 
(2) causation, and (3) redressability.  And the injury -in-fact must be 
“concrete and particularized. ”  Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 
U. S. 555, 560.  This Court has already rejected the notion that o f-
fense alone qualifies as a “concrete and particularized” injury suff i-
cient to confer standing, Diamond v. Charles, 476 U. S. 54, 62, and it 
has done so in the context of the Establishment Clause itself, see Val-
ley Forge Christian College  v. Americans United for the Separation of 
Church and State, 454 U. S. 464.  Offended observer standing is 
deeply inconsistent, too, with many other longstanding principles and 
precedents, including the rule that “
 ‘generalized grievances’ about 
the conduct of Government” are insufficient to confer standing to sue, 
Schlesinger v. Reservists Comm. to Stop the War, 418 U. S. 208, 217, 
and “the rule that a party ‘generally must assert his own legal rights 
and interests,’
 ” not those “ ‘of third parties,’ ” Kowalski v. Tesmer, 543 
U. S. 125, 129.  Pp. 1–6. 
 (b) Lower courts invented offended observer  standing for Esta b-
lishment Clause cases in response  to Lemon v. Kurtzman, 403 U. S. 
602, reasoning that if the Establishment Clause forbids anything 
that a reasonable observer would view as an endorsement of religion, 
then such an observer must be able to sue .  Lemon, however, was a 
misadventure, and the C ourt today relies on a more modest, histor i-
cally sensitive approach, interpreting the Establishment Clause with 
reference to historical practices and understandings.  The  monument 
here is clearly constitutional in light of the nation’s traditions.  Al- 
though the plurality does not say it in as many words , the message of 
today’s decision for the lower courts must be this: whether a monu-
ment, symbol, or practice is old or new, apply Town of Greece v. Gal-
loway, 572 U. S. 565, not Lemon, because what matters when it 
comes to assessing a monument, symbol, or practice is not its age but 
its compliance with ageless principles.  Pp. 6–9. 
 (c) With Lemon now shelved, little excuse will remain for the 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 7 
 
Syllabus 
anomaly of offended observer standing, and the gaping hole it tor e in 
standing doctrine in the courts of appeals should now begin to close.  
Abandoning offended observer standing will mean only a return to 
the usual demands of Article III, requiring a real controversy with 
real impact on real persons to make a federal case out of it.  Pp. 9–11. 
 A LITO, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered the 
opinion of the Court with respect to Parts I, II –B, II–C, III, and IV , in 
which ROBERTS, C. J., and B REYER, KAGAN, and K AVANAUGH, JJ., joined, 
and an opinion with respect to Parts II –A and II–D, in which ROBERTS, 
C. J., and B REYER and KAVANAUGH, JJ., joined.  B REYER, J., filed a co n-
curring opinion, in which K AGAN, J., joined.  K AVANAUGH, J., filed a co n-
curring opinion.  K AGAN, J., filed an opinion concurring in part.   THOM-
AS, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment.  G ORSUCH, J., filed 
an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which T HOMAS, J., joined.  
GINSBURG, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which S OTOMAYOR, J., 
joined. 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 1 
 
Opinion of the Court 
NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the 
preliminary print of the United States Reports.  Readers are requested to 
notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Wash -
ington, D.  C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order 
that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.  
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 
_________________ 
Nos. 17–1717 and 18–18 
_________________ 
THE AMERICAN LEGION, ET AL., PETITIONERS 
17–1717 v. 
AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSOCIATION, ET AL.; AND 
 
MARYLAND-NATIONAL CAPITAL PARK AND 
PLANNING COMMISSION, PETITIONER 
18–18 v. 
AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSOCIATION, ET AL. 
ON WRITS OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF 
APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT 
[June 20, 2019]
 J USTICE ALITO announced the judgment of the Court 
and delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to 
Parts I, II– B, II– C, III, and IV, and an opinion with r e-
spect to Parts II –A and II– D, in which T HE CHIEF 
JUSTICE, JUSTICE BREYER, and JUSTICE KAVANAUGH join. 
 Since 1925, the Bladensburg Peace Cross  (Cross) has 
stood as a tribute to 49 area soldiers who gave their lives 
in the First World War.  Eighty -nine years after the ded i-
cation of the Cross, respondents filed this lawsuit, clai m-
ing that they are offended by the sight of the memorial on 
public land and that its presence there and the expend i-
ture of public funds to maintain it violate the Establis h-
ment Clause of the First Amendment.  To remedy this 
violation, they asked a federal court to order the relocation 
or demolition of the Cross or at least the removal of its 

2 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Opinion of the Court 
arms.  The Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit agreed 
that the memorial is unconstitutional and remanded for a 
determination of the proper remedy.  We now reverse. 
 Although the cross has long been a preeminent Chri s-
tian symbol, its use in the Bladensburg memorial has a 
special significance.  After the First World War, the pi c-
ture of row after row of plain white crosses marking the 
overseas graves of soldiers who had lost their lives in that 
horrible conflict was emblazoned on the minds of Amer i-
cans at home, and the adoption of the cross as the 
Bladensburg memorial must be viewed in that historical 
context.  For nearly a century, the Bladensbur g Cross has 
expressed the community’s grief at the loss of the young 
men who perished, its thanks for their sacrifice, and its 
dedication to the ideals for which they fought.  It has 
become a prominent community landmark, and its removal 
or radical alteration at this date would be seen by many 
not as a neutral act but as the manifestation of “a hostility 
toward religion that has no place in our Establishment 
Clause traditions.”  Van Orden v. Perry, 545 U. S. 677, 704 
(2005) ( B
REYER, J., concurring  in judgme nt).  And con - 
trary to respondents’ intimations, there is no evidence of 
discriminatory intent in the selection of the design of the 
memorial or the decision of a Maryland commission to 
maintain it.  The Religion Clauses of the Constitution aim 
to foster a society in which people of all beliefs can live 
together harmoniously, and the presence of the Bladen s-
burg Cross on the land where it has stood for so many 
years is fully consistent with that aim. 
I 
A 
 The cross came into widespread use as a symbol of Chris-
tianity by the fourth century,
1 and it retains that meaning 
today.  But there are many contexts in which the symbol 
—————— 
1 B. Longenecker, The Cross Before Constantine: The Early Life of a 
Christian Symbol 2 (2015). 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 3 
 
Opinion of the Court 
has also taken on a secular meaning.  Indeed, there are 
instances in which its message is now almost entirely 
secular. 
 A cross appears as part of many registered trademarks 
held by businesses and secular organizations, including 
Blue Cross Blue Shield, the Bayer Group , and some John-
son & Johnson products. 2  Many of these marks relate to 
health care, and it is likely that the association of  the 
cross with healing had a religious origin.  But the current 
use of these marks is indisputably secular. 
 The familiar symbol of the Red Cross —a red cross on a 
white background —shows how the meaning of a symbol 
that was originally religious can be tran sformed.  The 
International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) selected 
that symbol in 1863 because it was thought to call to mind 
the flag of Switzerland, a country widely known for its 
neutrality.
3  The Swiss flag consists of a white cross on a 
red background.  In an effort to invoke the message ass o-
ciated with that flag, the I CRC copied its design with the 
colors inverted.  Thus, the I CRC selected this symbol for 
an essentially secular reason, and the current secular 
message of the symbol is shown by its use today in nations 
with only tiny Christian populations.
4  But the cross was 
originally chosen for the Swiss flag for religious reasons. 5  
—————— 
2 See Blue Cross, Blue Shield, https://www.bcbs.com; The Bayer Group, 
The Bayer Cross — Logo and Landmark, https: //www.bayer.com/en/logo-
history.aspx; Band-Aid Brand Adhesive Bandages, Johnson & Johnson 
All Purpose First Aid Kit, https://www.b and-aid.com/products/first-aid-
kits/all-purpose (all Internet materials as last visited June 18, 2019). 
3 International Committee of the Red Cross, The History of the Emblems, 
https://www.icrc.org/en/doc/resources/documents/misc/emblem-history.htm. 
4 For example, the Indian and Japanese affiliates of the ICRC and 
Red Crescent Societies use the symbol of the cross.  See Indian Red Cross 
Society, https://www.indianredcross.org/ircs/index.php; Japanese Red Cross 
Society, http://www.jrc.or.jp/english /. 
5 See “Flag of Switzerland,” Britannica Academic, https://academic.  
eb.com/levels/collegiate/article/flag-of-Switzerland/93966. 

4 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Opinion of the Court 
So an image that began as an expression of faith was 
transformed. 
 The image used in the Bladensburg memorial — a plain 
Latin cross6— also took on new meaning after World War I.  
“During and immediately after the war, the army marked 
soldiers’ graves with temporary wooden crosses or Stars of 
David”—a departure from the prior practice of marking 
graves in American military  cemeteries with uniform 
rectangular slabs.  G. Piehler, Remembering War th e 
American Way 101 (1995); App. 1146 .  The vast majority 
of these grave markers consisted of crosses,
7 and thus 
when Americans saw photographs of these cemeteries, 
what struck them were rows and rows of plain white 
crosses.  As a result, the image of a simple white cross 
“developed into a ‘central symbol’
 ” of the conflict.  Ibid.  
Contemporary literature, poetry, and art reflected this 
powerful imagery.  See Brief for Veterans of Fo reign Wars 
of the United States et  al. as Amici Curiae 10–16.  Pe r-
haps most famously, John McCrae’s poem, In Flanders 
Fields, began with these memorable lines: 
—————— 
6 The Latin form of the cross “has a longer upright than crossbar.  The 
intersection of the two is usually such that the upper and the two 
horizontal arms are all of about equal length, but the lower arm is 
conspicuously longer.”  G. Ferguson, Signs & Symbols in Christian Art 
294 (1954).  See also Webster’s Third New International Dictionary 
1276 (1981) (“latin cross, n.”: “a figure of a cross having a long upright 
shaft and a shorter crossbar traversing it above the middle”). 
7 Of the roughly 116,000 casualties the United States suffered in 
World War I, some 3,500 were Jewish soldiers.  J. Fredman & L. Falk, 
Jews in American Wars 100 (5th ed. 1954).  In the congressional 
hearings involving the appropriate grave markers for those buried 
abroad, one Representative stated that ap proximately 1,600 of these 
Jewish soldiers were buried in overseas graves marked by Stars of 
David. See Hearings before the Committee on Military Affairs, 68th 
Cong., 1st Sess., 3 (1924).  That would constitute about 5.2% of the 
30,973 graves in American World War I cemeteries abroad.  See Amer i-
can Battle Monuments Commission ( ABMC), World War I Burials and 
Memorializations, https://www.abmc.gov/node/1273. 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 5 
 
Opinion of the Court 
“In Flanders fields the poppies blow 
Between the crosses, row on row.” 
In Flanders Fields and Other Poems 3 (G.  P. Putnam’s 
Sons ed. 1919).  The poem was enormously popular.  See 
P. Fussell, The Great War and Modern Memory 248– 249 
(1975).  A 1921 New York Times  article quoted a descri p-
tion of McCrae’s composition as “ ‘the poem of the army’ ” 
and “ ‘of all those who understand the meaning of the great 
conflict.’ ”8  The image of “the crosses, row on row,” stuck 
in people’s minds, and even today for those who view 
World War I cemeteries in Europe, the image is arresting.
9 
 After the 1918 armistice, the  War Department a n-
nounced plans to replace the wooden crosses and Stars of 
David with uniform marble slabs like those previously 
used in American military cemeteries.  App. 1146.  But the 
public outcry against that proposal was swift and fierce.  
Many orga nizations, including the American War Mot h-
ers, a nonsectarian group founded in 1917, urged the 
Department to retain the design of the temporary mar k-
ers.  Id., at 1146–1147.  When the American Battle Mo n-
uments Commission took over the project of designing t he 
headstones, it responded to this public sentiment by op t-
ing to replace the wooden crosses and Stars of David with 
marble versions of those symbols.  Id., at 1144.  A Member 
of Congress likewise introduced a resolution noting that 
“these wooden symbols h ave, during and since the World 
War, been regarded as emblematic of the great sacrifices 
which that war entailed, have been so treated by poets 
and artists and have become peculiarly and inseparably 
associated in the thought of surviving relatives and co m-
rades and of the Nation with these World War graves.”  H. 
Res. 15, 68th Cong., 1 (1924), App. 1163– 1164.  This n a-
—————— 
8  “In Flanders Fields,” N. Y. Times, Dec. 18, 1921, p. 96. 
9 See ABMC, Cemeteries and Memorials, https://www.abmc.gov/cemeteries-
memorials. 

6 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Opinion of the Court 
tional debate and its outcome confirmed the cross’s wide-
spread resonance as a symbol of sacrifice in the war. 
B 
 Recognition of the cross’s symbolism extended to local 
communities across the country.  In late 1918, residents of 
Prince George’s County, Maryland, formed a committee for 
the purpose of erecting a memorial for the county’s fallen 
soldiers.  App. 988 –989, 1014.  Among the c ommittee’s 
members were the mothers of 10 deceased soldiers.  Id., at 
989.  The committee decided that the memorial should be 
a cross and hired sculptor and architect John Joseph 
Earley to design it.  Although we do not know precisely 
why the committee chose the cross, it is unsurprising that 
the committee— and many others commemorating  World 
War I
10—adopted a symbol so widely associated with that 
wrenching event. 
 After selecting the design, the c ommittee turned to the 
task of financing the project.  The committee held fun d-
raising events in the community and invited donations, no 
matter the size, with a form that read: 
“We, the citizens of Maryland, trusting in God, the 
Supreme Ruler of the Universe, Pledge Faith in our 
Brothers who gave their all in the World War to make 
[the] World Safe for Democracy.  Their Mortal Bodies 
have turned to  dust, but their spirit Lives to guide  
us through Life in the way of Godliness, Justice and 
Liberty. 
“With our Motto, ‘One God, One Country, and One 
Flag’ We contribute to this Memorial Cross Commem-
—————— 
10 Other World War I memorials that incorporate the cross include  
the Argonne Cross and the Cana dian Cross of Sacrifice in Arlington 
National Cemetery; the Wayside Cross in Towson, Maryland; the 
Wayside Cross in New Canaan, Connecticut; the Troop K Georgia 
Cavalry War Memorial Front in Augusta, Georgia; the Chestnut Hill 
and Mt. Airy World War Memorial in Philadelphia, Pe nnsylvania; and 
the Great War for Democracy Memorial in Waterbury, Connecticut. 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 7 
 
Opinion of the Court 
orating the Memory of those who have not Died in 
Vain.”  Id., at. 1251. 
 Many of those who responded were local residents who 
gave small amounts: Donations of 25 cents to 1 dollar were 
the most common.  Id. , at  1014.  Local businesses and 
political leaders assisted in this effort.  Id.,  at 1014, 1243.  
In writing  to thank United States Senator John Walter 
Smith for his donation, c ommittee treasurer Mrs. Martin 
Redman explained that “[t]he chief reason I feel as deeply 
in this matter [is that], my son, [Wm.] F. Redman, lost his 
life in France and because of that I feel that our memorial 
cross is, in a way, his grave stone.”  Id., at 1244. 
 The Cross was to stand at the terminus of another 
World War I memorial —the National Defense Highway, 
which connects Washington to Annapolis.  The community 
gathered for a joint groundbreaking ceremony for both 
memorials on September 28, 1919; the mother of the first 
Prince George’s County resident killed in France broke 
ground for the Cross.  Id., at 910.  By 1922, however, the 
committee had run out of funds, and progress on the Cross 
had stalled.  The local post of the American Legion took 
over the project, and the monument was finished in 1925. 
 The completed monument is a 32 -foot tall Latin cross 
that sits on a large pedestal.  The American Legion’s 
emblem is displayed at its cen ter, and the words “Valor,” 
“Endurance,” “Courage,” and “Devotion” are inscribed at 
its base, one on each of the four faces.  The pedestal also 
features a 9- by 2.5-foot bronze plaque explaining that the 
monument is “Dedicated to the heroes of Prince Georg e’s 
County, Maryland who lost their lives in the Great War 
for the liberty of the world.”  Id ., at  915 (capitalization 
omitted).  The plaque lists the names of 49 local men, both 
Black and W hite, who died in the war.  It identifies the 
dates of American in volvement, and quotes President 
Woodrow Wilson’s request for a declaration of war: “The 

8 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Opinion of the Court 
right is more precious than peace.  We shall fight for the 
things we have always carried nearest our hearts.  To such 
a task we dedicate our lives.”  Ibid. 
 At the dedi cation ceremony, a local Catholic priest 
offered an invocation.  Id.,  at 217–218.  United States 
Representative Stephen W. Gambrill delivered the key-
note address, honoring the “
 ‘men of Prince George’s County’ ” 
who “ ‘fought for the sacred right of all to live in peace  
and security.’ ”  Id., at 1372.  He encouraged the commu - 
nity to look to the “ ‘token of this cross, symbolic of Calvary,’ ” 
to “ ‘keep fresh the memory of our boys who died for a 
righteous cause. ’ ”  I bid.  The ceremony closed with a 
benediction offered by a Baptist pastor. 
  Since its dedication, the Cross has served as the site of 
patriotic events honoring veterans, including gatherings 
on Veterans Day, Memorial Day, and Independence Day.  
Like the dedication itself, these events have typically 
included an invocation, a keynote speaker, and a benedi c-
tion.  Id., at  182, 319–323.  Over the years, memorials 
honoring the veterans of other conflicts have been added 
to the surrounding area, which is now know n as Veterans 
Memorial Park.  These include a World War II Honor 
Scroll; a Pearl Harbor memorial; a Korea- Vietnam veter-
ans memorial; a September 11 garden; a War of 1812 
memorial; and two recently  added 38-foot-tall markers 
depicting British and American s oldiers in the Battle of 
Bladensburg.  Id., at 891–903, 1530.  Because the Cross is 
located on a traffic island with limited space, the closest of 
these other monuments is about 200 feet away in a park 
across the road.  Id., at 36, 44. 
 As the area around the Cross developed, the monument 
came to be at the center of a busy intersection.  In 1961, 
the Maryland -National Capital Park and Planning Co m-
mission (Commission) acquired the Cross and the land on 
which it sits in order to preserve the monument and a d-

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 9 
 
Opinion of the Court 
dress traffic -safety concerns. 11  Id., at  420–421, 1384–
1387.  The American Legion reserved the right to continue 
using the memorial to host a variety of ceremonies, includ-
ing events in memory of departed veterans.  Id., at 1387.  
Over the next five decades, the Commission spent approx-
imately $117,000 to maintain and preserve the monu-
ment.  In 2008, it budgeted an additional $100,000 for 
renovations and repairs to the Cross.
12 
C 
 In 2012, nearly 90 years after the Cross was dedicated 
and more than 50 years afte r the Commission acquired it, 
the American Humanist Association (AHA) lodged a co m-
plaint with the Commission.  The complaint alleged that 
the Cross’s presence on public land and the Commission’s 
maintenance of the memorial violate the Establishment 
—————— 
11 There is some ambi guity as to whether the American Legion ever 
owned the land on which the Cross rests.  When the Legion took over 
the Cross, the town of Bladensburg passed a resolution “assign[ing] and 
grant[ing] to the said Snyder-Farmer Post #3, American Legion, that 
parcel of ground upon which the cross now stands and that part nece s-
sary to complete . . . the park around said cross, to the perpetual care of 
the Snyder-Farmer Post #3 as long as it is in existence, and should the 
said Post go out of existence the plot to revert to the Town of Bladen s-
burg, together with the cross and its surroundings.”  App.  65.  In 1935, 
a statute authorized the State Roads Commission of Maryland to 
“investigate the ownership and possessory rights” of the tract surround-
ing the Cross and to “acquire the same by purchase or condemnation.”  
Id., at  421.  It appears that in 1957, a court determined that it was 
necessary for the S tate to condemn the property.  Id., at  1377–1379.  
The State Roads Commission thereafter conveyed the propert y to the 
Commission in 1960.  Id., at 1380, 1382.  To resolve any ambiguities, in 
1961, the local American Legion post “transfer[ed] and assign[ed] to 
[the Commission] all its right, title and interest in and to the Peace 
Cross, also originally known as the Memorial Cross, and the tract upon 
which it is located.”  Id., at 1387.  At least by 1961, then, both the land 
and the Cross were publicly owned. 
12 Of the budgeted $100,000, the Commission had spent only $5,000 
as of 2015.  The Commission put off additional spending and repai rs in 
light of this lawsuit.  Id., at 823. 

10 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Opinion of the Court 
Clause of the First Amendment.  Id.,  at 1443–1451.  The 
AHA, along with three residents of Washington, D. C., and 
Maryland, also sued the Commission in the District Court 
for the District of Maryland, making the same claim.  The 
AHA sought declaratory and injunctive relief requiring 
“removal or demolition of the Cross, or removal of the 
arms from the Cross to form a non -religious slab or ob e-
lisk.”  874 F. 3d 195, 202, n. 7 (CA4 2017) (internal quota-
tion marks omitted).  The American Legion intervened to 
defend the Cross. 
 The District Court granted summary judgment for the 
Commission and the American Legion.  The Cross, the 
District Court held, satisfies both the three -pronged test 
announced in Lemon v. Kurtzman, 403 U.  S. 602 (1971) , 
and the analysis applied by J
USTICE BREYER in upholding 
the Ten Commandments monument at issue in Van Orden 
v. Perry, 545 U.  S. 677.  Under the Lemon  test, a court 
must ask whether a challenged government action (1) has 
a secular purpose; (2) has a “principal or primary effect” 
that “neither advances nor inhibits religion”; and (3)  does 
not foster “an excessive government entanglement with 
religion,” 403 U. S., at 612–613 (internal quotation marks 
omitted).  Applying that test, the District Court deter-
mined that the Commission ha d secular purposes for 
acquiring and maintaining the Cross —namely, to co m-
memorate World War I and to ensure traffic safety.  The 
court also found that a reasonable observer aware of the 
Cross’s history, setting, and secular elements “would not 
view the Mon ument as having the effect of impermissibly 
endorsing religion.” 147 F.  Supp. 3d 373, 387 (Md. 2015).  
Nor, according to the court, did the Commission’s mainte-
nance of the memorial create the kind of “continued and 
repeated government involvement with reli gion” that 
would constitute an excessive entanglement.  Ibid. (inter-
nal quotation marks  and emphasis  omitted).  Finally, in 
light of the factors that informed its analysis of Lemon ’s 
“effects” prong, the c ourt concluded that the Cross is 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 11 
 
Opinion of the Court 
constitutional under J USTICE BREYER’s approach in Van 
Orden.  147 F. Supp. 3d, at 388–390. 
 A divided panel of the Court of Appeals for the Fourth 
Circuit reversed.  The majority relied primarily on the 
Lemon test but also took cognizance of JUSTICE BREYER’s 
Van Orden concurrence.  While recognizing that the 
Commission acted for a secular purpose, the c ourt held 
that the Bladensburg  Cross failed Lemon’s “effects” prong 
because a reasonable observer would view the Commi s-
sion’s ownership and maintenance of the monument as an 
endorsement of Christianity.  The court emphasized the 
cross’s “inherent religious meaning” as the “  ‘preeminent 
symbol of Christianity.’ ”  874 F. 3d, at 206–207.  Although 
conceding that the monument had several “secular el e-
ments,” the court asserted that they were “oversha d-
ow[ed]” by the Cross’s size and Christian connection —
especially because the Cross’s location and condition 
would make it difficult for “pa ssers-by” to “read” or other-
wise “examine” the plaque and American Legion emblem.  
Id., at 209–210.  The court rejected as “too simplistic” an 
argument dppefending the Cross’s constitutionality on the 
basis of its 90 -year history, suggesting that “[p]erhaps the 
longer a violation persists, the greater the affront to those 
offended.”  Id., at 208.  In the alternative, the court co n-
cluded, the Commission had become excessively entangled 
with religion by keeping a display that “aggrandizes the 
Latin cross” and by spending more than de minimis public 
funds to maintain it.  Id., at 211–212. 
 Chief Judge Gregory dissented in relevant part, con-
tending that the majority misapplied the “effects” test by 
failing to give adequate consideration to the Cross’s “phys-
ical setting, history, and usage.”  Id.,  at 218 ( opinion con-
curring in part and dissenting in part).  He also disputed 
the majority’s excessive -entanglement analysis, noting 
that the Commission’s maintenance of the Cross was not 
the kind of “comprehensive, disc riminating, and contin u-
ing state surveillance” of religion that Lemon  was con -
Opinion of the Court 

12 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Opinion of the Court 
cerned to rule out.  874 F.  3d, at 221 (internal quotation 
marks omitted). 
 The Fourth Circuit denied rehearing en banc over dis-
sents by Chief Judge Grego ry, Judge Wilkinson, and 
Judge Niemeyer.  891 F.  3d 117 (2018).  The Commission 
and the American Legion each petitioned for certiorari.  
We granted the petitions and consolidated them for arg u-
ment.  586 U. S. ___ (2016). 
II 
A 
 The Establishment Clause of the First Amendment 
provides that “Congress shall make no law respecting an 
establishment of religion.”  While the concept of a formally 
established church is straightforward, pinning down the 
meaning of a “law respecting an establishment of religion” 
has prove d to be a vexing problem.  Prior to the Court’s 
decision in Everson v. Board of Ed . of Ewing,  330 U. S. 1 
(1947), the Establishm ent Clause was applied only to the 
Federal Government, and few cases involving this prov i-
sion came before the Court.  After Everson recognized the 
incorporation of the Clause, however, the Court faced a 
steady stream of difficult and controversial Establishment 
Clause issues, ranging from Bible reading and prayer in 
the public schools, Engel v. Vitale, 370 U.  S. 421 (1962); 
School Dist. of Abington T ownship v. Schempp, 374 U.  S. 
203 (1963), to Sunday closing laws, McGowan v. Mary-
land, 366 U.  S. 420 (1961), to state subsidies for church-
related schools or the parents of students attending those 
schools, Board of Ed. of Central School Dist. No. 1 v. Allen, 
392 U. S. 236 (1968); Everson, supra.  After grappling with 
such cases for more than 20 years, Lemon ambitiously 
attempted to distill from the Court’s existing case law a 
test that would bring order and predictability to Esta b-
lishment Clause decisionmaking.  That test, as noted, 
called on courts to examine the purposes and effects of a 
Opinion of ALITO, J. 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 13 
 
Opinion of the Court 
challenged government action, as well as any entangl e-
ment with religion that it might entail.  Lemon , 403 U. S., 
at 612–613.  The Court later elaborated that the “effect[s]” 
of a challenged action should be assessed by asking 
whether a “reasonable observer” would conclude that the 
action constituted an “endorsement” of religion.  County of 
Allegheny v. American Civil Liberties Union, Greater 
Pittsburgh Chapter, 492 U.  S. 573, 592 (1989); id., at 630 
(O’Connor, J., concurring in part and concurrin g in  
judgment). 
 If the Lemon Court thought that its test would provide a 
framework for all future Establishment Clause decisions, 
its expectation has not been met.  In many cases, this 
Court has either expressly declined to apply the test or 
has simply i gnored it.  See Zobrest v. Catalina Foothills 
School Dist., 509 U.  S. 1 (1993); B oard of Ed. of Kiryas 
Joel Village School Dist. v.  Grumet, 512 U.
 S. 687 (1994); 
Rosenberger v. Rector and  Visitors of Univ . of V a., 515 
U. S. 819 (1995); Capitol Square Review and Advisory Bd. 
v. Pinette, 515 U.  S. 753 (1995); Good News Club v.  Mil-
ford Central School , 533 U. S. 98 (2001); Zelman v.  
Simmons-Harris, 536 U. S. 639 (2002); Cutter v. Wilkinson, 
544 U. S. 709 (2005); Van Orden , 545 U. S. 677; Ho sanna-
Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church and School v.  EEOC, 
565 U. S. 171 (2012); Town of Greece v.  Galloway, 572 
U. S. 565 (2014); Trump v. Hawaii, 585 U. S. ___ (2018). 
 This pattern is a testament to the Lemon  test’s short-
comings.  As Establishment Clause cases involving a great 
array of laws and practices came to the Court, it became 
more and more apparent that the Lemon  test could not 
resolve them .  It could not “explain the Establishment 
Clause’s tolerance, for example, of the prayers that open 
legislative meetings, . . . certain references to, and invoca-
tions of, the Deity in the public words of public officials; 
the public references to God on coins, decrees, and build-
ings; or the attention paid to the religious objectives of 
Opinion of ALITO, J. 
 

14 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Opinion of the Court 
certain holidays, including Thanksgiving.”  Van Orden , 
supra, at 699 ( opinion of BREYER, J.).  The test has been 
harshly criticized by Members of this Court,13 lamented by 
lower court judges,14 and questioned by a diverse roster of 
scholars.15 
—————— 
13 See, e.g., Utah Highway Patrol Assn. v. American Atheists, Inc., 565 
U. S. 994, 995 (2011) (T HOMAS, J., dissenting from denial of certiorari); 
County of Allegheny  v. American Civil Liberties Un ion, Greater Pitt s-
burgh Chapter, 492 U.  S. 573, 655–656 (1989) (Kennedy, J., concurring 
in judgment in part and dissenting in part); Lamb’s Chapel v. Center 
Moriches Union Free School Dist. , 508 U.  S. 384, 398– 399 (1993) 
(Scalia, J., concurring in judgment ); Wallace v. Jaffree, 472 U.  S. 38, 
112 (1985) (Rehnquist, J., dissenting). 
14 See, e.g., Green v. Haskell Cty. Bd. of Comm’rs, 574 F. 3d 1235, n. 1 
(CA10 2009) (Kelly, J., dissenting  from denial of rehearing en banc) 
(discussing the “judicial morass resul ting from the Supreme Court’s 
opinions”); Cooper v. United States Postal Service, 577 F.  3d 479, 494 
(CA2 2009) (“Lemon is difficult to apply and not a particularly useful 
test”); Roark v. South Iron R–1 School Dist., 573 F.  3d 556, 563 (CA8 
2009) (“[T]he Lemon test has had a ‘checkered career’ ”); Skoros v. New 
York, 437 F.  3d 1, 15 (CA2 2006) (government officials “confront a 
‘jurisprudence of minutiae’ that leaves them to rely on ‘little more than 
intuition and a tape measure’ to ensure the constitutiona lity of public 
holiday displays” (quoting County of Allegheny , supra, at 674– 675 
(opinion of Kennedy, J.)); Felix v. Bloomfield, 841 F. 3d 848, 864 (CA10 
2016) (court “cannot speculate what precise actions a government must 
take” to comply with the Establi shment Clause); Separation of Church 
and State Comm. v. Eugene, 93 F. 3d 617, 627 (CA9 1996) (O’Scannlain, 
J., concurring in result ) (The standards announced by this Court “are 
not always clear, consistent or coherent”). 
15 See McConnell, Religious Freedom at a Crossroads, 59 U. Chi. L. 
Rev. 115, 118– 120 (1992) (describing doctrinal “chaos” Lemon created, 
allowing the Court to “reach almost any result in almost any case”) ; 
Laycock, Towards a General Theory of the Religion Clauses: The Case 
of Church Labor Re lations and the Right to Church Autonomy, 81 
Colum. L. Rev. 1373, 1380– 1388 (1981)  (criticizing the “unstructured 
expansiveness of the entanglement notion” and the potential that 
certain constructions of the effects prong may result in “the establis h-
ment clause threaten[ing] to swallow the free exercise clause”) ; Smith, 
Symbols, Perceptions, and Doctrinal Illusions: Establishment Neutral - 
ity and the “No Endorsement” Test, 86 Mich. L. Rev. 266, 269 (1987)  
Opinion of ALITO, J. 
 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 15 
 
Opinion of the Court 
 For at least four reasons, the Lemon test presents pa r-
ticularly daunting problems in cases, including the one 
now before us, that involve the use, for ceremonial, cele-
bratory, or commemorative purposes, of words or symbols 
with religious associations.
16  Together, these considera- 
—————— 
(criticizing both the Lemon  test and the endorsement  gloss); Tushnet, 
Reflections on the Role of Purpose in the Jurisprudence of the Religion 
Clauses, 27 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 997, 1004 (1986)  (describing cases 
involving “ ‘deeply ingrained practices’ ” as “not readily susceptible to 
analysis under the ordinar y Lemon approach”); Choper, The Endors e-
ment Test: Its Status and Desirability, 18 J.  L. & Pol itics 499 (2002)  
(criticizing both Lemon  and the endorsement gloss) ; Paulsen, Religion, 
Equality, and the Constitution: An Equal Protection Approach to 
Establishment Clause Adjudication, 61 Notre Dame L. Rev. 311, 315 
(1986) (criticizing the Court’s reading of the Establishment Clause as 
“producing a schizophrenic pattern of decisions”); Marshall, “We Know 
It When We See It”: The Supreme Court and Establishment, 59 S. Cal. 
L. Rev. 495, 526 (1986)  (explaining that the purpose prong of Lemon , 
“[t]aken to its logical conclusion .  . . suggests that laws which respect 
free exercise rights . . . are unconstitutional”). 
16 While we do not attempt to provide an authoritative taxonomy of 
the dozens of Establishment Clause cases that the Court has decided 
since Everson v. Board of Ed. of Ewing,  330 U. S. 1 (1947), most can be 
divided into six rough categories: (1) religious references or imagery in 
public monuments, symbols, mottos, displays, and ceremonies, e.g. , 
Lynch v. Donnelly, 465 U. S. 668 (1984); Van Orden v. Perry, 545 U.  S. 
677 (2005); (2)  religious accommodations and exemptions from gener - 
ally applicable laws, e.g. , Cutter v. Wilkinson , 544 U.  S. 709 (2005); 
Corporation of Presiding Bishop of Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints v. Amos, 483 U. S. 327 (1987); (3) subsidies and tax exemptions, 
e.g., Walz v. Tax Comm’n of City of New York , 397 U.  S. 664 (1970); 
Zelman v. Simmons-Harris, 536 U.  S. 639 (2002) ; (4) r eligious expres-
sion in public schools, e.g. , School Dist. of Abington Township v. 
Schempp, 374 U.  S. 203 (1963); Lee v. Weisman, 505 U.  S. 577 (1992) ; 
(5) regulation of private religious speech, e.g. , Capitol Square Review 
and Advisory Bd. v. Pinette, 515 U. S. 753 (1995); and (6) state interfer-
ence with internal church affairs, e.g.,  Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical 
Lutheran Church and School  v. EEOC, 565 U.  S. 171 (2012).   A final, 
miscellaneous category, including cases involving such issues as Su n-
day closing laws, see McGowan, v. Maryland, 366 U. S. 420 (1961) , and 
church involvement in governmental decisionmaking, see Larkin  v. 
Opinion of ALITO, J. 
 
Opinion of ALITO, J. 
 

16 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Opinion of the Court 
tions counsel against efforts to evaluate such cases under 
Lemon and toward application of a presumption of consti-
tutionality for longstanding monuments, symbols, and 
practices. 
B 
 First, these cases often concern monuments, symbols, or 
practices that were first established long ago, and in such 
cases, identifying their original purpose or purposes may 
be especially difficult.  In Salazar v. Buono, 559 U. S. 700 
(2010), for example, we dealt with a cross that a small 
group of World War I veterans had put up at a remote spot 
in the Mojave Desert more than seven decades earlier.  
The record contained virtually no direct evidence regar d-
ing the specific motivations of these men.  We knew that 
they had selected a plain white cross, and there was some 
evidence that the man who looked after the monument for 
many years—“a miner who had served as a medic and had 
thus presumably witnessed the carnage of the war 
firsthand”— was said not to have been “p articularly reli-
gious.”  Id., at 724 (A
LITO, J., concurring in part and co n-
curring in judgment). 
 Without better evidence about the purpose of the mo n-
ument, different Justices drew different inferences.  The 
plurality thought that this particular cross was meant “to 
commemorate American servicemen who had died in 
World War I” and was not intended “to promote a Chri s-
tian message.”  Id.,  at 715.  The dissent, by contrast, 
“presume[d]” that the cross’s purpose “was a Christian 
one, at least in part, for the simple reason that those who 
erected the cross chose to commemorate American vete r-
ans in an explicitly Christian manner.”  Id.,  at 752 ( opin-
ion of Stevens, J. ).  The truth is that 70 years after the 
—————— 
Grendel’s Den, Inc., 459 U. S. 116 (1982); Board of Ed. of Kiryas Joel 
Village School Dist . v. Grumet,  512 U. S. 687 (1994) , might be added.  
We deal here with an issue that falls into the first category. 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 17 
 
Opinion of the Court 
fact, there was no way to be certain about the motivations 
of the men who were responsible for the creation of the 
monument.  And this is often the case with old mon u-
ments, symbols, and practices.  Yet it would be inappro-
priate for courts to compel their removal or termination 
based on supposition. 
 Second, as time goes by, the purposes associated with an 
established monument, symbol, or practice often multiply.  
Take the example of Ten Commandments monuments, the 
subject we add ressed in Van Orden , 545 U.  S. 677,  and 
McCreary County v. American Civil Liberties Union of Ky., 
545 U. S. 844 (2005).  For believing Jews and Christians, 
the Ten Commandments are the word of  God handed 
down to Moses on Mount  Sinai, but the image of the T en 
Commandments has also been used to convey other mean-
ings.  They have historical significance as one of the foun-
dations of our legal system, and for largely that reason, 
they are depicted in the marble frieze in our courtroom 
and in other prominent public buildings in our Nation’s 
capital.  See Van Orden, supra, at 688–690.  In Van Orden 
and McCreary, no Member of the Court thought that these 
depictions are unconstitutional.  545 U. S., at 688–690; id., 
at 701 ( opinion of B
REYER, J.); id.,  at 740 (Souter,  J., 
dissenting). 
 Just as depictions of the Ten Commandments in these 
public buildings were intended to serve secular purposes, 
the litigation in Van Orden  and McCreary showed that 
secular motivations played a part in the proliferation of 
Ten Commandments monuments in the 1950s.  In 1946 , 
Minnesota Judge E.  J. Ruegemer proposed that the Ten 
Commandments be widely disseminated as a way of com-
bating juvenile delinquency.
17  With this prompting, the 
—————— 
17 See Bravin, When Moses’ Laws Run Afoul of the U.  S.’s, Get Me 
Cecil B. deMille —Ten Commandment Memorial Has Novel Defense in 
Suit, Wall Street Journal, Apr. 18, 2001, p. A1. 

18 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Opinion of the Court 
Fraternal Order of the Eagles began distributing paper 
copies of the Ten Commandments to churches, school 
groups, courts, and government offices.  The Eagles, 
“while interested in the religious aspect of the Ten Com-
mandments, sought to highlight the Commandments’ role 
in shaping civic morality.”  Van Orden , supra, at 701 
(opinion of B REYER, J.).  At the same time, Cecil B. 
DeMille was filming The Ten Commandments .18  He 
learned of Judge Ruegemer’s campaign, and the two co l-
laborated, deciding that the Commandments should be 
carved on stone tablets and that DeMille would make 
arrangements with the Eagles to help pay for them, thus 
simultaneously promoting his film and public awareness 
of the Decalogue.  Not only did DeMille and Judge Rueg e-
mer have different purposes, but the motivations of those 
who accepted the monumen ts and those responsible for 
maintaining them may also have differed.  As we noted in 
Pleasant Grove City  v. Summum, 555 U.  S. 460, 476 
(2009), “the thoughts or sentiments expressed by a go v-
ernment entity that accepts and  displays [a monument] 
may be quite  different from those of either its creator or 
its donor.” 
 The existence of multiple purposes is not exclusive to 
longstanding monuments, symbols, or practices, but this 
phenomenon is more likely to occur in such cases.  Even if 
the original purpose of a monument was infused with 
religion, the passage of time may obscure that sentiment.  
As our society becomes more and more religiously diverse, 
a community may preserve such monuments, symbols, 
and practices for the sake of their historical significance or 
their place in a common cultural heritage.  Cf.  Schempp, 
374 U.  S., at 264–265 (Brennan, J., concurring) (“[The] 
government may originally have decreed a Sunday day of 
—————— 
18 See D. Davis, The Oxford Handbook of Church and State in the 
United States 284 (2010). 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 19 
 
Opinion of the Court 
rest for the impermissible purpose of supporting religion 
but abandoned that purpose and  retained the laws for the 
permissible purpose of furthering overwhelmingly secular 
ends”). 
 Third, just as the purpose for maintaining a monument, 
symbol, or practice may evolve, “[t]he ‘message’ conveyed 
. . .  may change over time.”  Summum , 555 U. S., at 477.  
Consider, for example, the message of the Statue of Lib - 
erty, which began as a monument to the solidarity and 
friendship between France and the United States and only 
decades later came to be seen “as a beacon welcoming 
immigrants to a land of freedom.”  Ibid. 
 With sufficient time, religiously expressive monuments, 
symbols, and practices can become embedded features of a 
community’s landscape and identity.  The community may 
come to value them without necessarily embracing their 
religious roots.  The recent tragic fire at Notre  Dame in 
Paris provides a striking example.  Although the French 
Republic rigorously enforces a secular public square,
19 the 
cathedral remains a symbol of national importance to the 
religious and nonreligious alike.  Notre Da me is fund a-
mentally a place of worship and retains great religious 
importance, but its meaning has broadened.  For many, it 
is inextricably linked with the very idea of Paris and 
France.
20  Speaking to the nation shortly after the fire, 
President Macron sai d that Notre Dame “  ‘is our history, 
our literature, our imagination.  The place where we su r-
vived epidemics, wars, liberation.  It has been the epicen-
ter of our lives.’
 ”21 
 In the same way, consider the many cities and towns 
—————— 
19 See French Constitution, Art. 1 (proclaiming that France is a “secu-
lar . . . Republic”). 
20 See Erlanger, What the Notre-Dame Fire Reveals About the Soul of 
France, N. Y. Times, Apr. 16, 2019. 
21 Hinnant, Petrequin, & Ganley, Fire Ravages Soaring Notre Dame 
Cathedral, Paris Left Aghast, AP News, Apr. 16, 2019. 

20 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Opinion of the Court 
across the United States that bear religious names.  Reli-
gion undoubtedly motivated those who named Bethlehem, 
Pennsylvania; Las Cruces, New Mexico; Providence, 
Rhode Island; Corpus Christi, Texas; Nephi, Utah, and the 
countless other places in our country with names that are 
rooted in religion.  Yet few would argue that this history 
requires that these names be erased from the map.  Or 
take a motto like Arizona’s, “Ditat Deus” (“God enriches”), 
which was adopted in 1864,
22 or a flag like Maryland’s, 
which has included two crosses since 1904. 23  Familiarity 
itself can become a reason for preservation. 
 Fourth, when time’s passage imbues a religiously ex-
pressive monument, symbol, or practice with this kind of 
familiarity and historical significance, removing it may no 
longer appear neutral,  especially to the local community 
for which it has taken on particular meaning.  A gover n-
ment that roams the land, tearing down monuments with 
religious symbolism and scrubbing away any reference to 
the divine will strike many as aggressively hostile to 
religion.  Militantly secular regimes have carried out such 
projects in the past,
24 and for those with a knowledge of 
—————— 
22 See B. Shearer & B . Shearer, State Names, Seals, Flags, and Sy m-
bols: A Historical Guide 17 –18 (3d ed. 2002).   See also id., at 18 (Con-
necticut motto: “Qui Tanstulit Sustinet ” (“He Who Transplanted Still 
Sustains”), dating back to the colonial era and adapted from the Book of 
Psalms 79:3); ibid. (Florida motto: “In God We Trust,” adopted in 1868); 
id., at 20 (Mar yland m otto: “Scuto Bonae Volantatis Tuae Coronasti 
Nos” (“With Favor Wilt Thou Compass Us as with a Shield”), which 
appeared on the seal adopted in 1876 and comes from Psalms 5:12); id.,  
at 21–22 (Ohio m otto: “With God, All Things Are Possible,” adopted i n 
1959 and taken from Matthew 19:26); id.,  at 22 (South Dakota motto: 
“Under God the People Rule,” adopted in 1885); id., at 23 (American 
Samoa motto: “Samoa—Muamua le Atua ” (“Samoa—Let God Be First”), 
adopted in 1975). 
23 The current flag was known and used since at least October 1880, and 
was officially adopted by the General Assembly in 1904.  See History of the 
Maryland Flag, https://sos.maryland.gov/Pages/Services/Flag-History.aspx. 
24 For example, the French Revolution sought to “dechristianize” the 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 21 
 
Opinion of the Court 
history, the image of monuments being taken down will be 
evocative, disturbing, and divisive.  Cf. Van Orden , 545 
U. S., at 704 ( opinion of BREYER, J.) (“[D]isputes concern-
ing the removal of longstanding depictions of the Ten 
Commandments from public buildings across the Nation 
. . . could thereby create the very kind of religiously based 
divisiveness that the Establishment Clause seeks to 
avoid”). 
 These four considerations show that retaining esta b-
lished, religiously expressive monuments, symbols, and 
practices is quite different from erecting or adopting new 
ones.  The passage of time gives rise to a strong presum p-
tion of constitutionality. 
C 
 The role of the cross in World War I memorials is il - 
lustrative of each of the four preceding considerations.  
Immediately following the war, “[c]ommunities across Amer-
ica built memorials to commemorate those who had served 
the nation in the struggle t o make the world safe for d e-
mocracy.”  G. Piehler, The American Memory of War, App. 
1124.  Although not all of these communities included a 
cross in their memorials, the cross had become a symbol 
closely linked to the war.  “[T]he First World War wit-
nessed a dramatic change in .  . . the symbols used to com-
memorate th[e] service” of the fallen soldiers.  Id., at 1123.  
In the wake of the war, the United States adopted the 
cross as part of its military honors, establishing the Di s-
tinguished Service Cross and the Navy Cross in 1918 and 
—————— 
nation and thus removed “plate [s], statues and other fittings from 
places of worship,” destroyed “crosses, bells, shrines and other , ‘exter-
nal signs of worship,’  ” and altered “personal and place names which 
had any ecclesiastical connotations to more suit ably Revolutionary 
ones.”  Tallett, De christianizing France: The Year II and the Revol u-
tionary Experience , in Religion, Society and Politics in France Since 
1789, pp. 1–2 (F. Tallett & N. Atkin eds. 1991). 

22 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Opinion of the Court 
1919, respectively.  See id. , at  147–148.  And as already 
noted, the fallen soldiers’ final resting places abroad were 
marked by white crosses or Stars of David.  The solemn 
image of endless rows of white crosses became inextricably 
linked with and symbolic of the ultimate price paid by 
116,000 soldiers.  And this relationship between the cross 
and the war undoubtedly influenced the design of the 
many war memorials that sprang up across the Nation. 
 This is not to say that the cro ss’s association with the 
war was the sole or dominant motivation for the inclusion 
of the symbol in every World War I memorial that features 
it.  But today, it is all but impossible to tell whether that 
was so.  T he passage of time means that testimony fr om 
those actually involved in the decisionmaking process is 
generally unavailable, and attempting to uncover their 
motivations invites rampant speculation.  And no matter 
what the original purposes for the erection of a monument, 
a community may wish to pr eserve it for very different 
reasons, such as the hi storic preservation and traffic-
safety concerns the Commission has pressed here. 
 In addition, the passage of time may have altered the 
area surrounding a monument in ways that change its 
meaning and prov ide new reasons for its preservation.  
Such changes are relevant here, since the Bladensburg 
Cross now sits at a busy traffic intersection, and numerous 
additional monuments are located nearby. 
 Even the AHA recognizes that there are instances in 
which a w ar memorial in the form of a cross is unobjec-
tionable.  The AHA is not offended by the sight of the 
Argonne Cross or the Canadian Cross of Sacrifice, both 
Latin crosses commemorating World War I that rest on 
public grounds in Arlington National Cemetery.  The 
difference, according to the AHA, is that their location in a 
cemetery gives them a closer association with individual 
gravestones and interred soldiers.  See Brief for Respon d-
ents 96; Tr. of Oral Arg. 52. 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 23 
 
Opinion of the Court 
 But a memorial’s placement in a cemetery is n ot neces-
sary to create such a connection.  The parents and other 
relatives of many of the war dead lacked the means to 
travel to Europe to visit their graves, and the bodies of 
approximately 4,400 American soldiers were either never 
found or never identified. 25  Thus, for many grieving rel a-
tives and friends, memorials took the place of gravestones.  
Recall that the mother of one of the young men memoria l-
ized by the Bladensburg Cross thought of the memorial as, 
“in a way, his grave stone.”  App. 1244.  Whether in a 
cemetery or a city park, a World War I cross remains a 
memorial to the fallen. 
 Similar reasoning applies to other memorials and mon-
uments honoring important figures in our Nation’s his - 
tory.  When faith was important to the person whose life is 
commemorated, it is natural to include a symbolic refer-
ence to faith in the design of the memorial.  For example, 
many memorials for Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. , make 
reference to his faith.  Take the Martin Luther King, Jr. 
Civil Rights Memorial Park in Sea ttle, which contains a 
sculpture in three segments representing “both the Chri s-
tian Trinity and the union of the family.”
26  In Atlanta, the 
Ebenezer Baptist Church sits on the grounds of the Mar-
tin Luther King, Jr. National Historical Park.  National 
Statuary Hall in the Capitol honors a variety of religious 
figures: for example, Mother Joseph Pariseau kneeling in 
prayer; Po’Pay, a Pueblo religious leader with symbols of 
the Pueblo religion; Brigham Young, president of the 
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter -day Saints; and Father 
Eusebio Kino with a crucifix around his neck and his hand 
raised in blessing.
27  These monuments honor men and 
—————— 
25 See App. 141, 936; M. Sledge, Soldier Dead 67 (2005). 
26 Local Memorials Honoring Dr. King, https://www.kingcounty.  
gov/elected/executive/equity-social-justice/mlk/local-memorials.aspx. 
27 The National Statua ry Hall Collection,  https://www.aoc.gov/the- 
national-statuary-hall-collection. 

24 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Opinion of the Court 
women who have played an important role in the history 
of our country, and where religious symbols are included 
in the monuments, their presence acknowledges the cen-
trality of faith to those whose lives are commemorated. 
 Finally, as World War I monuments have endured 
through the years and become a familiar part of the physi-
cal and cultural landscape, r equiring their removal would 
not be viewed by many as a neutral act.  And an alteration 
like the one entertained by the Fourth Circuit —
amputating the arms of the Cross, see 874 F. 3d, at 202, 
n. 7— would be seen by many as profoundly disrespectful.   
One member of the majority below viewed this objection as 
inconsistent with the claim that the Bladensburg Cross 
serves secular purposes, see 891 F.  3d, at 121 (Wynn, J., 
concurring in denial of en banc), but this argument mi s-
understands the complexity of monumen ts.  A monument 
may express many purposes and convey many different 
messages, both secular and religious.  Cf. Van Orden, 545 
U. S., at 690 (plurality opinion) (describing simultaneous 
religious and secular meaning of the Ten Commandments 
display).  Thus , a campaign to obliterate items with  
religious associations may evidence hostility to religion 
even if those religious associations are no longer in the 
forefront. 
 For example, few would say that the State of California 
is attempting to convey a religious  message by retaining 
the names given to many of the State’s cities by their 
original Spanish settlers —San Diego, Los Angeles, Santa 
Barbara, San Jose, San Francisco, etc.  But it would be 
something else entirely if the State undertook to change 
all those names.  Much the same is true about monuments 
to soldiers who sacrificed their lives for this country more 
than a century ago. 
D 
 While the Lemon Court ambitiously attempted to find a 
grand unified theory of the Establishment Clause, in later 
Opinion of ALITO, J. 
 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 25 
 
Opinion of the Court 
cases, we have taken a more modest approach that focuses 
on the particular issue at hand and looks to history for 
guidance.  Our cases involving prayer before a legislative 
session are an example. 
 In Marsh v. Chambers, 463 U.  S. 783 (1983), the Court 
upheld the Nebraska Legislature’s practice of beginning 
each session with a prayer by an official chaplain, and in 
so holding, the Court conspicuously ignored Lemon and 
did not respond to Justice Brennan’s argument in dissent 
that the leg islature’s practice could not satisfy the Lemon 
test.  Id., at 797–801.  Instead, the Court found it highly 
persuasive that Congress for more than 200 years had 
opened its sessions with a prayer and that many s tate 
legislatures had followed suit.  Id ., at 787–788.  We took a 
similar approach more recently in Town of Greece , 572 
U. S., at 577. 
 We reached these results even though it was clear, as 
stressed by the Marsh dissent, that prayer is by definition 
religious.  See Marsh , supra, at 797–798 ( opinion of Bren-
nan, J. ).  As the Court put it in Town of Greece :  
“Marsh must not be understood as permitting a practice 
that would amount to a constitutional violation if not for 
its historical foundation.”  572 U.  S., at 576.  “The case 
teaches instead that the Es tablishment Clause must be 
interpreted ‘by reference to historical practices and under-
standings’
 ” and that the decision of the First Congress to 
“provid[e] for the appointment of chaplains only days after 
approving language for the First Amendment demo n-
strates that the Framers considered legislative prayer a 
benign acknowledgment of religion’s role in society.”  Ibid. 
 The prevalence of this philosophy at the time of the 
founding is reflected in other prominent actions taken by 
the First Congress.  It requested —and President Was h-
ington proclaimed—a national day of prayer, see 1 J. 
Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presidents, 1789–
1897, p. 64 (1897) (President Washington’s Thanksgiving 
Opinion of ALITO, J. 
 

26 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Opinion of the Court 
Proclamation), and it reenacted the Northwest Territory 
Ordinance, which provided that “[r]eligion, morality, and 
knowledge, being necessary  to good government and the 
happiness of mankind, schools and the means of education 
shall forever be encouraged,” 1 Stat. 52, n. ( a).  President 
Washington echoed this sentiment in his Farewell A d-
dress, calling religion and morality “indispensable su p-
ports” to “political prosperity.”  Far ewell Address (1796), 
in 35 The Writings of George Washington 229 (J. Fitzpa t-
rick ed. 1940).  See also P.  Hamburger, Separation of 
Church and State 66 (2002).  The First Congress looked to 
these “supports” when it chose to begin its sessions with a 
prayer.  This practice was designed to solemnize congres-
sional meetings, unifying those in attendance as they 
pursued a common goal of good governance. 
 To achieve that purpose, legislative prayer needed to be 
inclusive rather th an divisive, and that required a dete r-
mined effort even in a society that was much more reli-
giously homogeneous than ours today.  Although the 
United States at the time was overwhelmingly Christian 
and Protestant,
28 there was considerable friction between 
Protestant denominations.  See M. Noll, America’s God: 
From Jonathan Edwards to Abraham Lincoln 228 (2002).  
Thus, when an Episcopal clergyman was nominated as 
chaplain, some Congregationalist M embers of Congress 
objected due to t he “  ‘diversity of religiou s sentiments 
represented in Congress.’  ”  D. Davis, Religion and the 
Continental Congress 74 (2000).  Nevertheless, Samuel 
Adams, a staunch Congregationalist, spoke in favor of the 
motion: “ ‘I am no bigot.  I can hear a prayer from a man  
of piety and virtue, who is at the same time a friend of  
his country.’ ”  Ibid.  Others agreed and the chaplain was 
appointed. 
 Over time, the members of the clergy invited to offer 
—————— 
28 W. Hutchison, Religious Pluralism in America 20–21 (2003). 
Opinion of ALITO, J. 
 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 27 
 
Opinion of the Court 
prayers at the opening of a session grew more and more 
diverse.  For example, an 1856 study of Senate and House 
Chaplains since 1789 tallied 22 Methodists, 20 Presbyter i-
ans, 19 Episcopalians, 13 Baptists, 4 Congregationalists, 2 
Roman Catholics, and 3 that were characterized as “mi s-
cellaneous.”
29  Four years later, Rabbi Morris Raphall 
became the first rabbi to open Congress. 30  Since then, 
Congress has welcomed guest chaplains from a variety of 
faiths, including Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism, and Native 
American religions.31 
 In Town of Greece,  which concerned prayer before a  
town council meeting, there was disagreement about the 
inclusiveness of the town’s practice.  Compare 572 U. S., at 
585 (opinion of the Court)  (“The town made reasonable 
efforts to identify all of the congregations located within 
its borders and represented that it would welcome a prayer 
by any minister or layman who wished to give one”) ,  
with id., at 616 ( K
AGAN, J., dissenting)  (“Greece’s Board 
did nothing to recognize religious diversity ”).  But there 
was no disagreement that the Establishment Clause 
permits a nondiscriminatory practice of prayer at the 
beginning of a town council session.  See ibid.  (“I believe 
that pluralism and inclusion [in legislative prayer] in a 
town hall can satisfy the constitut ional requirement of 
neutrality”).  Of course, the specific practice challenged in 
Town of Greece lacked the very direct connection, via the 
First Congress, to the thinking of those who were respon-
sible for framing the First Amendment.  But what ma t-
tered was that the town’s practice “fi [t] within the trad i-
tion long followed in Congress and the state legislatures.”  
—————— 
29 A. Stokes, 3 Church and State in the United States 130 (1950). 
30 Korn, Rabbis, Prayers, and Legislatures, 23 Hebrew Union College 
Annual, No. 2, pp. 95, 96 (1950). 
31 See Lund, The Congressional Chaplaincies, 17 Wm. & Mary Bill of 
Rights J. 1171, 1204– 1205 (2009).  See also 160 Cong. Rec. 3853 (2014) 
(prayer by the Dalai Lama). 
Opinion of ALITO, J. 
 

28 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Opinion of the Court 
Id., at 577 (opinion of the Court). 
 The practice begun by the First Congress stands out as 
an example of respect and tolerance for differing views, an 
honest endeavor to achieve inclusivity and nondiscrimina-
tion, and a recognition of the important role that religion 
plays in the lives of many Americans.  Where categories  
of monuments, symbols, and practices with a longstand - 
ing history follow in that tradition, they are like wise 
constitutional. 
III 
 Applying these principles, we conclude that the 
Bladensburg Cross does not violate the Establishment 
Clause. 
 As we have explained, the Bladensburg Cross carries 
special significance in commemorating World War I.  Due 
in large par t to the image of the simple wooden crosses 
that originally marked the graves of American soldiers 
killed in the war, the cross became a symbol of their sacr i-
fice, and the design of the Bladensburg Cross must be 
understood in light of that background.  Tha t the cross 
originated as a Christian symbol and retains that meaning 
in many contexts does not change the fact t hat the symbol 
took on an added  secular meaning when used in World 
War I memorials. 
 Not only did the Bladensburg Cross begin with this 
meaning, but with the passage of time, it has acquired 
historical importance.  It reminds the people of Bladen s-
burg and surrounding areas of the deeds of their predeces-
sors and of the sacrifices they made in a war fought in the 
name of democracy.  As long as it is retained in its original 
place and form, it speaks as well of the community that 
erected the monument nearly a century ago and has main-
tained it ever since.  The memorial represents what the 
relatives, friends, and neighbors of the fallen soldiers felt 
at the time and how they chose to express their sent i-

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 29 
 
Opinion of the Court 
ments.  And the monument has acquired additional layers 
of historical meaning in subsequent years.  The Cross now 
stands among memorials to veterans of later wars.  It has 
become part of the community. 
 T he monument would not serve that role if its design 
had deliberately disrespected area soldiers who perished 
in World War I.  More than 3,500 Jewish soldiers gave 
their lives for the United States in  that conflict,
32 and 
some have wondered whether the names  of any Jewish 
soldiers from the area were deliberately left off the list on 
the memorial or whether the names of any Jewish soldiers 
were included on the Cross against the wishes of their 
families.  There is no evidence that either thing was done, 
and we do know that one of the local American Legion 
leaders responsible for the Cross’s construction was a 
Jewish veteran.  See App. 65, 205, 990. 
 The AHA’s brief strains to connect the Bladensburg 
Cross and even the American Legion with anti- Semitism 
and the Ku Klux Klan,  see Brief for Respondents 5 –7, but 
the AHA’s disparaging intimations have no evidentiary 
support.  And when the events surrounding the erection of 
the Cross are viewed in historical context, a very different 
picture may perhaps be discerned.  The monument was 
dedicated on July 12, 1925, during a period when the 
country was experiencing heightened racial and religious 
animosity.  Membership in the Ku Klux Klan, which 
preached hatred of Blacks, Catholics, and Jews, was at its 
height.
33  On August 8, 1925, just two weeks after the 
dedication of the Bladensburg Cross and less than 10  
miles away, some 30,000 robed Klansmen marched down 
Pennsylvania Avenue in the Nation’s Capital.  But the 
Bladensburg Cross memorial included the names of both 
—————— 
32 J. Fr edman & L. Falk, Jews in American Wars 100– 101 (5th ed. 
1954). 
33 Fryer & Levitt, Hatred and Profits: Under the Hood of the Ku Klux 
Klan, 127 Q. J. Econ. 1883 (2012). 

30 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
Opinion of the Court 
Black and White soldiers who had given their lives in the 
war; and despite the fact that Catholics and Baptists at 
that time were not exactly in the habit of participating 
together in ecumenical services, the ceremony dedicating 
the Cross began with an invocation by a Catholic priest 
and ended with a benediction by a Baptist pastor.  App. 
1559–1569, 1373 .  We can never know for certain what 
was in the minds of those responsible for the memorial, 
but in light of what we know about this ceremony, we can 
perhaps make o ut a picture of a community that, at least 
for the moment, was united by grief and patriotism and 
rose above the divisions of the day. 
 Finally, it is surely relevant that the monument co m-
memorates the death of particular individuals.  It is natu-
ral and ap propriate for those seeking to honor the d e-
ceased to invoke the symbols that signify what death 
meant for those who are memorialized.  In some circu m-
stances, the exclusion of any such recognition would make 
a memorial incomplete.  This well explains why Holocaust 
memorials invariably include Stars of David or other 
symbols of Judaism.
34  It explains why a new memorial to 
Native American veterans in Washington, D.  C., will 
portray a steel circle to represent “  ‘the hole in the sky 
where the creator lives. ’ ”35  And this is why the memorial 
for soldiers from the Bladensburg community features the 
cross— the same symbol that marks the graves of so many 
of their comrades near the battlefields where they fell. 
—————— 
34 For example, the South Carolina Holocaust Memorial depicts a 
large Star of David “  ‘in sacred memory of the six million,’  ” 
see https://www.onecolumbiasc.com/public-art/south-carolina-holocaust-
memorial/, and the Philad elphia Monument to Six Million Jewish 
Martyrs depicts a burning bush, Torah scrolls, and a blazing men - 
orah, see https://www.associationforpublicart.org/artwork/monument -
to-six-million-jewish-martyrs/. 
35 Hedgpeth, “A Very Deep Kind of Patriotism ”: Memorial to Honor 
Native American Veterans Is Comi ng to the Mall, Washington  Post , 
Mar. 31, 2019. 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 31 
 
Opinion of the Court 
IV 
 The cross is undoubtedly a Christian symbol, but that 
fact should not blind us to everything else that the 
Bladensburg Cross has come to represent.  For some, that 
monument is a symbolic resting place for ancestors who 
never returned home.  For others, it is a place for the 
community to gather and honor all veterans and their 
sacrifices for our Nation.  For others still, it is a historical 
landmark.  For many of these people, destroying or defa c-
ing the Cross that has stood undisturbed for nearly a 
century would not be neutral and would not further the 
ideals of respect and tolerance embodied in the First 
Amendment.  For all these reasons, the Cross does not 
offend the Constitution. 
*  *  * 
 We reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals for  
the Fourth Ci rcuit and remand the cases for further  
proceedings. 
 
It is so ordered. 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 1 
 
BREYER, J., concurring 
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES  
_________________ 
Nos. 17–1717 and 18–18 
_________________ 
THE AMERICAN LEGION, ET AL., PETITIONERS 
17–1717 v. 
AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSOCIATION, ET AL.; AND 
 
MARYLAND-NATIONAL CAPITAL PARK AND 
PLANNING COMMISSION, PETITIONER 
18–18 v. 
AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSOCIATION, ET AL. 
ON WRITS OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF 
APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT 
[June 20, 2019]
 J USTICE BREYER, with whom J USTICE KAGAN joins, 
concurring. 
 I have long maintained that there is no single formula 
for resolving Establishment Clause challenges .  See Van 
Orden v. Perry, 545 U. S. 677, 698 (2005) (opinion concur-
ring in judgment).  The Court must instead consider each 
case in light of the b asic purposes that the Religion  
Clauses were meant to serve: assuring religious liberty and 
tolerance for all, avoiding religiously based social conflict, 
and maintaining that separation of church and state that 
allows each to flourish in its “separate spher[e].”  Ibid.; see 
also Zelman v. Simmons-Harris, 536 U.  S. 639, 717−723 
(2002) (BREYER, J., dissenting).   
 I agree with the Court that allowing the State of Mary-
land to display and maintain the Peace Cross poses no 
threat to those ends.  The Court’s opinion eloquently 
explains why that is so: The Latin cross is uniquely asso-
ciated with the fallen soldiers of World War I; the organiz-

2 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
BREYER, J., concurring 
ers of the Peace Cross acted with the undeniably secular 
motive of commemorating local soldiers; no evidence su g-
gests that they s ought to disparage or exclude any rel i-
gious group; the secular values inscribed on the Cross and 
its place among other memorials strengthen its message of 
patriotism and commemoration; and, finally, the Cross has 
stood on the same land for 94 years, generating no contro-
versy in the community until this lawsuit was filed.  Noth-
ing in the record suggests that the lack of public outcry 
“was due to a climate of intimidation.”  Van Orden, 545 
U. S., at 702 ( B
REYER, J., concurring in judgment).  In 
light of all t hese circumstances, the Peace Cross cannot 
reasonably be understood as “a government effort to favor 
a particular religious sect” or to “promote religion over 
nonreligion.”  Ibid.  And, as the Court explains, ordering 
its removal or alteration at this late  date would signal “a 
hostility toward religion that has no place in our Esta b-
lishment Clause traditions.”  Id., at 704.    
 The case would be different , in my view, if there were 
evidence that the organizers had “deliberately disrespected” 
members of mino rity faiths or if the Cross had been  
erected only recently, rather than in the aftermath of 
World War I.  See ante, at 29; see also Van Orden, 545 
U. S., at 703 (opinion of B
REYER, J.) (explaining that, in 
light of the greater religious diversity today, “a  more 
contemporary state effort” to put up a religious display is 
“likely to prove divisive in a way that [a] longstanding, 
pre-existing monument [would] not”).  But those are not 
the circumstances presented to us here, and I see no rea-
son to order this  cross torn down simply because other 
crosses would raise constitutional concerns.   
 Nor do I understand the Court’s opinion today to adopt a 
“history and tradition test” that would permit any newly 
constructed religious memorial on public land.  See p ost, 
at 1, 4 ( K
AVANAUGH , J., concurring); cf. post,  at 8−9 
(GORSUCH, J., concurring in judgment).  The Court appro-

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 3 
 
BREYER, J., concurring 
priately “looks to history for guidance,” ante, at 25 (plural-
ity opinion), but it upholds the constitutionality of the 
Peace Cross only after considering its particular historical 
context and its long-held place in the community, see ante, 
at 28−30 (majority opinion).  A newer memorial, erected 
under different circu mstances, would not necessarily be 
permissible under this approach.  Cf. ante, at 21.  
 As I have previously explained, “where the Establis h-
ment Clause is at issue,” the Court must “  ‘distinguish 
between real threat and mere shadow.’ ”  Van Orden, 545 
U. S., at 704 (opinion concurring  in judgment) (quoting 
School Dist. of Abington Township  v. Schempp, 374 U. S. 
203, 308 (1963) (Goldberg, J., concurring) ).  In light of all 
the circumstances here, I agree with the Court that the 
Peace Cross poses no real threat to the values that the 
Establishment Clause serves.     

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 1 
 
KAVANAUGH, J., concurring 
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 
_________________ 
Nos. 17–1717 and 18–18 
_________________ 
THE AMERICAN LEGION, ET AL., PETITIONERS 
17–1717 v. 
AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSOCIATION, ET AL.; AND 
 
MARYLAND-NATIONAL CAPITAL PARK AND 
PLANNING COMMISSION, PETITIONER 
18–18 v. 
AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSOCIATION, ET AL. 
ON WRITS OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF 
APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT 
[June 20, 2019] 
 J USTICE KAVANAUGH, concurring. 
 I join the Court’s eloquent and persuasive opinion in 
full.  I write separately to emphasize two points. 
I 
 Consistent with the Court’s case law, the Court today 
applies a history and tradition test in examining and 
upholding the constitutionality of the Bladensburg Cross.  
See Marsh v. Chambers, 463 U.  S. 783, 787–792, 795 
(1983); Van Orden v. Perry, 545 U. S. 677, 686–690 (2005) 
(plurality opinion); Town  of Greece v. Galloway, 572 U.  S. 
565, 575–578 (2014). 
 As this case again demonstrates, this Court no longer 
applies the old test articulated in Lemon v. Kurtzman, 403 
U. S. 602 (1971).  The Lemon  test examined, among other 
things, whether the challenged government action had a 
primary effect of advancing or e ndorsing religion.  If  
Lemon guided this Court’s understanding of the Esta b-
lishment Clause, then many of the Court’s Establishment 

2 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
KAVANAUGH, J., concurring 
Clause cases over the last 48 years would have been d e-
cided differently, as I will explain. 
 The opinion identifies five relevant categories of Esta b-
lishment Clause cases: (1) religious symbols on gover n-
ment property and religious speech at government events; 
(2) religious accommodations and exemptions from gener-
ally applicable laws; (3) government benefits and tax 
exemptions for religious organizations; (4) religious ex-
pression in public schools; and (5) regulation of private 
religious speech in public forums.  See ante, at 15, n. 16. 
 The Lemon test does not explain the Court’s decisions in 
any of those five categories. 
 In the  first category of cases, the Court has relied on 
history and tradition and upheld various religious symbols 
on government property and religious speech at gover n-
ment events.  See, e.g ., Marsh, 463 U. S., at 787–792, 795; 
Van Orden, 545 U.  S., at 686–690 ( plurality opinion); 
Town of Greece, 572 U. S., at 575–578.  The Court does so 
again today.  Lemon does not account for the results in 
these cases. 
 In the second category of cases, this Court has allowed 
legislative accommodations for religious activity an d 
upheld legislatively granted religious exemptions from 
generally applicable laws.  See, e.g., Corporation of Presid-
ing Bishop of Church of Jesus Christ of Latter -day Saints 
v. Amos, 483 U.  S. 327 (1987); Cutter  v. Wilkinson, 544 
U. S. 709 (2005).  But accommodations and exemptions “by 
definition” have the effect of advancing or endorsing reli-
gion to some extent.  Amos, 483 U. S., at 347 (O’Connor, J., 
concurring in judgment) (quotation altered).  Lemon, fairly 
applied, does not justify those decisions. 
 I n the third category of cases, the Court likewise has 
upheld government benefits and tax exemptions that go to 
religious organizations, even though those policies have 
the effect of advancing or endorsing religion.  See, e.g ., 
Walz v. Tax Comm’n of City of  New York , 397 U.  S. 664 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 3 
 
KAVANAUGH, J., concurring 
(1970); Mueller v. Allen, 463 U.  S. 388 (1983); Mitchell v. 
Helms, 530 U. S. 793 (2000) (plurality opinion); Zelman  v. 
Simmons-Harris, 536 U.  S. 639 (2002); Trinity Lutheran 
Church of Columbia, Inc . v. Comer , 582 U.  S. ___ (2017).  
Those outcomes are not easily reconciled with Lemon. 
 In the fourth category of cases, the Court has proscribed 
government-sponsored prayer in public schools.  The 
Court has done so not because of Lemon , but because the 
Court concluded that government -sponsored prayer in 
public schools posed a risk of coercion of students.  The 
Court’s most prominent modern case on that subject,  
Lee v. Weisman, 505 U.  S. 577 (1992), did not rely on 
Lemon.  In short, Lemon  was not necessary to the Court’s 
decisions holding government -sponsored school prayers 
unconstitutional. 
 In the fifth category, the Court has allowed private 
religious speech in public forums on an equal basis with 
secular speech.  See, e.g., Lamb’s Chap el v. Center 
Moriches Union Free School Dist ., 508 U.  S. 384 (1993); 
Capitol Square Review and Advisory Bd . v. Pinette, 515 
U. S. 753 (1995); Rosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of 
Univ. of Va ., 515 U.  S. 819 (1995); Good News Club v. 
Milford Central School, 533 U. S. 98 (2001).  That practice 
does not violate the Establishment Clause, the Court has 
ruled.  Lemon does not explain those cases. 
 Today, the Court declines to apply Lemon  in a case in 
the religious symbols and religious speech category, just 
as the Court declined to apply Lemon  in Town of Greece v. 
Galloway, Van Orden  v. Perry, and Marsh v. Chambers.  
The Court’s decision in this case again makes clear that 
the Lemon test does not apply to Establishment Clause 
cases in that category.  And the Court’s decisions over the 
span of several decades demonstrate that the Lemon test 
is not good law and does not apply to Establishment 
Clause cases in any of the five categories. 
 On the contrary, each category of Establishment Clause 

4 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
KAVANAUGH, J., concurring 
cases has its own principles based on history, tradition, 
and precedent.  And the cases together lead to an over-
arching set of principles: If the challenged government 
practice is not coercive and if it (i) is rooted in history and 
tradition; or (ii) treats religious people, organizations, 
speech, or activity equally to comparable secular people, 
organizations, speech, or activity; or (iii) represents a 
permissible legislative accommodation or exemption from 
a generally applicable law, then there ordinarily is no 
Establishment Clause violation.* 
 The practice of displaying religious memorials, partic u-
larly religious war memorials, on public land is not coer-
cive and is rooted in history and tradition.  The Bladen s-
burg Cross does not violate the Establishment Clause.  Cf. 
Town of Greece, 572 U. S. 565. 
II 
 The Bladensburg Cross commemorates soldiers who 
gave their lives for America in World War I.  I agree with 
the Court that the Bladensburg Cross is constitutional.  At 
the same time, I have deep respect for the plaintiffs’ sin-
cere objections to seeing the cross on public land.  I have 
great respect for the Jewish war veterans who in an ami-
cus brief say that the cross on public land sends a message 
of exclusion.  I recognize their sense of distress and aliena-
tion.  Moreover, I fully understand the deeply religious 
nature of the cross.  It would demean both believers and 
nonbelievers to say that the cross is not religious, or not 
all that religious.  A case like this is difficult because it 
represents a clash of genuine and important interests.  
Applying our precedents, we uphold the constitutionality 
of the cross.  In doing so, it is appropriate to also restate 
this bedrock constitutional principle: All citizens are 
—————— 
*That is not to say that challenged government actions outside that 
safe harbor are unconstitutional.   Any such cases must be analyzed 
under the relevant Establishment Clause principles and precedents. 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 5 
 
KAVANAUGH, J., concurring 
equally American, no matter what religion they are, or if 
they have no religion at all. 
 The conclusion that the cross does not violate the Estab-
lishment Clause does not necessarily mean that those who 
object to it have no other recourse.  The Court’s ruling 
allows the State to maintain the cross on public land.  The 
Court’s ruling does not require the State to maintain the 
cross on public land.  The Maryland Legislature could 
enact new laws requiring removal of the cross or transfer 
of the land.  The Maryland Governor or other state or local 
executive officers may have authority to do so under cu r-
rent Maryland law.  And if not, the legislature could enact 
new laws to authorize such executive action.  The Mar y-
land Constitution, as interpreted by the Maryland Court 
of Appeals, may speak to this question.  And if not, the 
people of Maryland can amend the State Constitution. 
 Those alternative avenues of relief illustrate a fund a-
mental feature of our constitutional structure: This Court 
is not the only guardian of indivi dual rights in America.  
This Court fiercely protects the individual rights secured 
by the U. S. Constitution.  See, e.g., West Virginia Bd. of 
Ed. v. Barnette, 319 U.  S. 624 (1943); Wisconsin v. Yoder, 
406 U. S. 205 (1972).  But the Constitution sets a fl oor for 
the protection of individual rights.  The constitutional 
floor is sturdy and often high, but it is a floor.  Other 
federal, state, and local government entities generally 
possess authority to safeguard individual rights above and 
beyond the rights secured by the U. S. Constitution.  See 
generally J. Sutton, 51 Imperfect Solutions (2018); Bren-
nan, State Constitutions and the Protection of Individual 
Rights, 90 Harv. L. Rev. 489 (1977). 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 1 
 
KAGAN, J., concurring 
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 
_________________ 
Nos. 17–1717 and 18–18 
_________________ 
THE AMERICAN LEGION, ET AL., PETITIONERS 
17–1717 v. 
AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSOCIATION, ET AL.; AND 
 
MARYLAND-NATIONAL CAPITAL PARK AND 
PLANNING COMMISSION, PETITIONER 
18–18 v. 
AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSOCIATION, ET AL. 
ON WRITS OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF 
APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT 
[June 20, 2019] 
 J USTICE KAGAN, concurring in part. 
 I fully agree with the Court’s reasons for allowing the 
Bladensburg Peace Cross to remain as it is, and so join 
Parts I, II– B, II– C, III, and IV of its opinion, as well as 
JUSTICE BREYER’s concurrence.  Although I agree that 
rigid appl ication of the Lemon  test does not solve every 
Establishment Clause problem, I think that test’s focus on 
purposes and effects is crucial in evaluating government 
action in this sphere—as this very suit shows.  I therefore 
do not join Part II –A.  I do not join Part II –D out of per-
haps an excess of caution.  Although I too “look[
 ] to history 
for guidance,” ante, at 25 (plurality opinion), I prefer at 
least for now to do so case- by-case, rather than to sign on 
to any broader statements about history’s role i n Esta b-
lishment Clause analysis.  But I find much to admire in 
this section of the opinion —particularly, its emphasis on 
whether longstanding monuments, symbols, and practices 
reflect “respect and tolerance for differing views, an honest 
KAGAN, J., concurring in part 

2 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
KAGAN, J., concurring in part 
endeavor to achieve inclusivity and nondiscrimination, 
and a recognition of the important role that religion plays 
in the lives of many Americans.”  Ante, at 28.  Here, as 
elsewhere, the opinion shows sensitivity to and respect for 
this Nation’s pluralism, and the values of  neutrality and 
inclusion that the First Amendment demands. 
 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 1 
 
THOMAS, J., concurring 
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES  
_________________ 
Nos. 17–1717 and 18–18 
_________________ 
THE AMERICAN LEGION, ET AL., PETITIONERS 
17–1717 v. 
AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSOCIATION, ET AL.; AND 
 
MARYLAND-NATIONAL CAPITAL PARK AND 
PLANNING COMMISSION, PETITIONER 
18–18 v. 
AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSOCIATION, ET AL. 
ON WRITS OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF 
APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT 
[June 20, 2019]
 J USTICE THOMAS, concurring in the judgment. 
 The Establishment Clause states that “Congress shall 
make no law respecting an establishment of religion.”  
U. S. Const., Amdt. 1.  The text and history of this Clause 
suggest that it should not be incorporated against the 
States.  Even if the Clause expresses an individual right 
enforceable against the States, it is limited  by its text to 
“law[s]” enacted by a legislature, so it is unclear whether 
the Bladensburg Cross would implicate any incorporated 
right.  And even if it did, this religious display does not 
involve the type of actual legal coercion that was a hal l-
mark of historical establishments of religion.  Therefore, 
the Cross is clearly constitutional.  
I 
 As I have explained  elsewhere, the Establishment 
Clause resists incorporation against the States.  Town of 
Greece v. Galloway, 572 U. S. 565, 604–607 (2014) (opinion 
concurring in part and concurring in judgment); Elk Grove 
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment 

2 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment 
Unified School Dist. v. Newdow, 542 U. S. 1, 49–51 (2004) 
(opinion concurring in judgment); Van Orden v. Perry, 545 
U. S. 677, 692–693 (2005) (concurring opinion); Zelman v. 
Simmons-Harris, 536 U.  S. 639, 677– 680 (2002) (same).  
In Everson v. Board of Ed. of Ewing , 330 U.  S. 1, 15 
(1947), the Court “casually” incorporated the Clause with 
a declaration that because the Free Exercise Clause had 
been incorporated, “  ‘[t]here is every reason to give the 
same application and broad interpretation to the “estab-
lishment of religion ” clause.’ ”  Town of Greece, 572 U. S., 
at 607, n. 1 (opinion of THOMAS, J.).  The Court apparently 
did not consider that an incorporated Establishment 
Clause would prohibit exactly what the text of the Clause 
seeks to protect: state establishments of religion.  See id., 
at 605–606. 
 The Court’s “inattention” to the significant question of 
incorporation “might be explained, although not excused, 
by the rise of popular conceptions about ‘separation of 
church and state ’ as an ‘American’ constitutional right.”  
Id., at 608, n. 1; see P. Hamburger, Separation of Church 
and State 454–463 (2002); see also id., at 391–454 (tracing 
the role of nativist sentiment in the rise of “the modern 
myth of separation” as an American ideal).   But an ahis-
torical generalization is no substitute for careful constitu-
tional analysis.  We should consider whether any 
longstanding right of citizenship restrains the States in 
the establishment context.  See generally McDonald v. 
Chicago, 561 U.  S. 742, 805– 858, and n.  20 (2010)  
(T
HOMAS, J., concurring in part and concurring in 
judgment). 
 Further confounding the incorporation question is the 
fact that the First Amendment by its terms applies only to 
“law[s]” enacted by “Congress.”  Obviously, a memorial is 
not a law.  And respondents have not identified any speci- 
fic law they challenge as unconstitutional, either on its face 
or as applied.  Thus, respondents could prevail on their 
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment 
 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 3 
 
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment 
establishment claim only if the prohibition embodied in 
the Establishment Clause was understood to be an indi-
vidual right of citizenship that applied to more than just 
“law[s]” “ma[de]” by “Congress.”1 
II 
 E ven if the Clause applied to state and local gover n-
ments in some fashion, “[t]he mere presence of the monu-
ment along [respondents’] path involves no coercion and 
thus does not v iolate the Establishment Clause. ”  Van 
Orden, 545 U. S., at 694 (opinion of THOMAS, J.).  The sine 
qua non of an establishment of religion is “ ‘actual legal 
coercion. ’ ”  Id., at 693.  At the founding, “[t]he coercion 
that was a hallmark of historical establishments of rel i-
gion was coercion of religious orthodoxy and of financial 
support by force of law and threat of penalty .”  Lee v. 
Weisman, 505 U. S. 577, 640 (1992) (Scalia, J., dissenting) 
(emphasis deleted) .  “In a typical case, attendance at the 
established church was mandatory, and taxes were levied 
to generate church revenue.  Dissenting ministers were 
barred from preaching, and political participation was 
limited to members of  the established church.”  Town of 
Greece, supra, at 608 ( opinion of T HOMAS, J. ) (citation 
omitted).  In an action claiming an unconstitutional estab-
lishment of religion , the plaintiff must demonstrate that 
he was actually coerced by government conduct tha t 
shares the characteristics of an establishment as unde r-
stood at the founding. 2 
—————— 
1 In my view, the original meaning of the phrase “Congress shall 
make no law” is a question worth exploring.  Compare G. Lawson & G. 
Seidman, The Constitution of Empire 42 (2004) (arguing that the First 
Amendment “applies only to Congress”), with Shrum  v. Coweta, 449 
F. 3d 1132, 1140– 1143 (CA10 2006) (McConnell, J.) (arguing that it is 
not so limited).   
2 Of course, cases involving state or local action are not strictly spea k-
ing Establishment Clause cases, but instead Fourteenth Amendment 
cases about a privilege or immunity of citizenship.  It is conceivable 
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment 
 

4 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment 
 Here, respondents briefly suggest that the government’s 
spending their tax dollars  on maintaining the Bladen s-
burg Cross represents coercion, but they have not demon-
strated that maintaining a religious display  on public 
property shares any of the historical characteristics of an 
establishment of religion.  The local commission  has not 
attempted to control religious doctrine or personnel, co m-
pel religious observance, single out a particular religious 
denomination for exclusive state subsidization,  or punish 
dissenting worship.  Instead, the commission  has done 
something that the founding generation, as well as the 
generation that ratified the Fourteenth Amendment, 
would have found commonplace: displaying  a religious 
symbol on government property .  See Brief for Becket 
Fund for Religious Liberty as Amicus Curiae 14– 22.  
Lacking any characteristics of “the coercive state esta b-
lishments that existed at the founding,” Town of Greece, 
572 U. S., at 608 (opinion of T
HOMAS, J.), the Bladensburg 
Cross is constitutional.  
 The Blade nsburg Cross is constitutional even though 
the cross has religious significance as a central symbol of 
Christianity.  Respondents’ primary contention is that this 
characteristic of the Cross makes it “sectarian” —a word 
used in respondents’ brief more than 40 times.  Putting 
aside the fact that Christianity is not a “sect,” religious 
displays or speech need not be limited to that which a 
“judge considers to be nonsectarian.”  Id., at 582 (majority 
opinion).  As the Court has explained, “[a]n insistence on 
nonsectarian” religious speech is inconsistent with our 
Nation’s history and traditions.  Id., at 578–580; see id., at 
595 ( A
LITO, J., concurring).  Moreover, requiring that 
—————— 
that the salient characteristics of an establishment changed by the time 
of the Fourteenth Amendment, see Town of Greece v. Galloway, 572 
U. S. 565, 607, 609– 610 (2014) ( THOMAS, J., concurring in part and 
concurring in judgment), but respondents have presented no evidence 
suggesting so. 
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment 
 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 5 
 
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment 
religious expressions be nonsectarian would force the 
courts “to act as supervisors and censors of religious 
speech.”  I d., at 581 (majority opinion).  Any such effort 
would find courts “trolling through . . . religious beliefs” to 
decide what speech is sufficiently generic.  Mitchell v. 
Helms, 530 U. S. 793, 828 (2000) (plurality opinion).  And 
government bodies trying to comply with the inev itably 
arbitrary decisions of the courts would face similarly 
intractable questions.  See Town of Greece, supra, at 596 
(opinion of A
LITO, J.).3 
—————— 
3 Another reason to avoid a constitutional test that turns on the “se c-
tarian” nature of religious speech is that the Court has suggested 
“formally dispens[ing]” with this fa ctor in related contexts.  Mitchell , 
530 U.  S., at 826 (plurality opinion).  Among other reasons, th e “sec-
tarian” test “has a shameful pedigree” that originated during the 1870s 
when Congress considered the Blaine Amendment, “which would have 
amended the C onstitution to bar any aid to sectarian institutions.”  Id., 
at 828.  “Consideration of the amendment arose at a time of pervasive 
hostility to the Catholic Church and to Catholics in general, and it was 
an open secret that ‘sectarian’ was code for ‘Catholic.’ ”  Ibid.  This anti-
Catholic hostility may well have played a role in the Court’s later 
decisions.  Everson  v. Board of Ed . of Ewing, 330 U.  S. 1 (1947),  for 
example, was written by Justice Black, who would later accuse Cath o-
lics who advocated for textbook loans to religious schools of being 
“powerful sectarian religious propagandists .  . . looking toward co m-
plete domination and supremacy of their particular brand of religion.”  
Board of Ed. of Central School Dist. No. 1  v. Allen, 392 U.  S. 236, 251 
(1968) (Black, J., dissenting).  Even by the time of Lemon v. Kurtzman, 
403 U.  S. 602 (1971),  some Justices were still “influenced by residual 
anti-Catholicism and by a deep suspicion of Catholic schools.”  Laycock, 
The Underlying Unity of Separation and Neu trality, 46 Emory L. J. 43, 
58 (1997).  Indeed, the Court’s opinion in Lemon  “relied on what it 
considered to be inherent risks in religious schools despite the absence 
of a record in Lemon itself and despite contrary fact -finding by the 
district court  in the companion case .”  Laycock, supra, at 58 (footnote 
omitted); see generally W. Ball, Mere Creatures of the State?, 35 –40 
(1994).  And in his concurring opinion, Justice Douglas (joined by 
Justice Black) repeatedly quoted an anti -Catholic book, including for 
the proposition that, in Catholic parochial schools, “
 ‘[t]he whole educa-
tion of the child is filled with propaganda. ’ ”  403 U.  S., at 635, n.  20 
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment 
 

6 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment 
III 
 As to the long -discredited test set forth in Lemon  v. 
Kurtzman, 403 U. S. 602, 612–613 (1971), and reiterated 
in County of Allegheny v. American Civil Liberties Union, 
Greater Pittsburgh Chapter, 492 U.  S. 573, 592– 594 
(1989), the plurality rightly rejects its relevance to claims, 
like this one, involving “religious references or imagery in 
public monuments, symbols, mottos, displays, and cer e-
monies.”  Ante,  at 15–16, and n.  16.  I agree with that 
aspect of its opinion.  I would take the logical next step 
and overrule the Lemon  test in all contexts.  First, that 
test has no basis in the original meaning of the Constit u-
tion.  Second, “since its inception,” it has “been manipu- 
lated to fit whatever result the Court aimed to achieve.”  
McCreary County v. American Civil Liberties Union of Ky., 
545 U.  S. 844, 900 (2005) (S calia, J., dissenting); see 
Lamb’s Chapel v. Center Moriches Union Free School Dist., 
508 U.  S. 384, 398– 399 (1993) (Scalia, J., concurring in 
judgment).  Third, it continues to cause enormous conf u-
sion in the States and the lower courts.  See generally 
Utah Highway Patrol Assn. v. American Atheists, Inc., 565 
U. S. 994 (2011) (T
HOMAS, J., dissenting from denial of 
certiorari).  In recent decades, the Court has tellingly 
refused to apply Lemon in the very cases where it purports 
to be most useful.  See Utah Highway, supra, at 997–998 
(collecting cases); ante,  at 13 (plurality opinion) (same).  
The obvious explanation is that Lemon does not provide a 
sound basis for judging Establishment Clause claims.  
—————— 
(quoting L. Boettner, Roman Catholicism 360 (1962)); see 403 U. S., at 
636 (similar).  The tract said that Hitler, Mussolini, and Stalin learned 
the “secret[s] of [their] success” in indoctrination from the Catholic 
Church, and that “an undue proportion of the gangsters, racketeers, 
thieves, and juvenile delinquents who roam our big city streets come 
. . . from the [Catholic] parochial schools,” where children are taught by 
“brain-washed,” “
 ‘ignorant European peasants. ’ ”  Boettner, supra, at 
363, 370–372. 
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment 
 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 7 
 
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment 
However, the court below “s[aw] fit to apply Lemon.”  874 
F. 3d 195, 205 (CA4 2017).  It is our job to say what the 
law is, and because the Lemon  test is not good law, we 
ought to say so. 
*  *   * 
 Regrettably, I cannot join the Court’s opinion because it 
does not adequately clarify the appropriate standard for 
Establishment Clause cases.  Therefore, I concur only in 
the judgment. 
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment 
 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 1 
 
GORSUCH, J., concurring 
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 
_________________ 
Nos. 17–1717 and 18–18 
_________________ 
THE AMERICAN LEGION, ET AL., PETITIONERS 
17–1717 v. 
AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSOCIATION, ET AL.; AND 
 
MARYLAND-NATIONAL CAPITAL PARK AND 
PLANNING COMMISSION, PETITIONER 
18–18 v. 
AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSOCIATION, ET AL. 
ON WRITS OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF 
APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT 
[June 20, 2019] 
 J USTICE GORSUCH, with whom JUSTICE THOMAS joins, 
concurring in the judgment. 
 The American Humanist Association wants a federal 
court to order the destruction of a 94 year- old war mem o-
rial because its members are offended.  Today, the Court 
explains that the plaintiffs are not entitled to demand the 
destruction of longstanding monuments, and I find much 
of its opinion compelling.  In my judgment, however, it 
follows from the Court’s analysis that suits like this one 
should be dismissed for lack of standing.  Accordingly , 
while I concur in the judgment to reverse and remand the 
court of appeals’ decision, I would do so with additional 
instructions to dismiss the case. 
* 
 The Association claims that its members “regularly” 
come into “unwelcome direct contact” with a World War I 
memorial cross in Bladensburg, Maryland “while driving 
in the area.”  874 F. 3d 195, 203 (CA4 2017).  And this, the 
GORSUCH, J., concurring in judgment 

2 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
GORSUCH, J., concurring in judgment 
Association suggests, is enough to allow it to insist on a 
federal judicial decree ordering the memorial’s removal.  
Maybe, the Association concedes, others who are less 
offended lack standing to sue.  Maybe others still who are 
equally affected but who come into contact with the m e-
morial too infrequently lack standing as well.  See Tr. of 
Oral Arg. 48– 49.  But, the Association assures u s, its 
members are offended enough —and with sufficient fr e-
quency—that they may sue.  
 This “offended observer” theory of standing has no basis 
in law.  F ederal courts may decide only those cases and 
controversies that the Constitution and Congress have 
authorized them to hear.  And to establish standing to sue 
consistent with the Constitution, a plaintiff must show: 
(1) injury-in-fact, (2) causation, and (3) redressability.  The 
injury-in-fact test requires a plaintiff to prove “an invasion 
of a legally prot ected interest which is (a) concrete and 
particularized . . . and (b) actual or imminent, not conje c-
tural or hypothetical.”  Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 
U. S. 555, 560 (1992) (internal quotation marks omitted). 
 Unsurprisingly, this Court has already rejected the 
notion that offense alone qualifies as a “concrete and 
particularized” injury sufficient to confer standing.  We 
could hardly have been clearer: “The presence of a dis - 
agreement, however sharp and acrimonious it may be, is 
insufficient by itself to meet Art. III’s requirements.”  
Diamond v. Charles, 476 U. S. 54, 62 (1986).  Imagine if a 
bystander disturbed by a police stop tried to sue under the 
Fourth Amendment.  Suppose an advocacy organization 
whose members were distressed by a State’s decision to 
deny someone else a civil jury trial sought to complain 
under the Seventh Amendment.  Or envision a religious 
group upset about the application of the death penalty 
trying to sue to stop it.  Does anyone doubt those cases 
would be rapidly dispa tched for lack of standing?  Cf.  
Whitmore v. Arkansas, 495 U.  S. 149, 151 (1990) (holding 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 3 
 
GORSUCH, J., concurring in judgment 
that a third party does not have “standing to challenge the 
validity of a death sentence imposed on a capital defend-
ant who has elected to forgo his right of appeal”). 
 It’s not hard to see why this Court has refused suits like 
these.  If individuals and groups could invoke the author - 
ity of a federal court to forbid what they dislike for no more 
reason than they dislike it, we would risk exceeding the 
judiciary’s limited constitutional mandate and infringing 
on powers committed to other branches of government.  
Courts would start to look more like legislatures, respond-
ing to social pressures rather than remedying concrete 
harms, in the process supplanting the right of  the people 
and their elected representatives to govern themselves.  
See, e.g., Clapper v. Amnesty Int’l USA, 568 U. S. 398, 408 
(2013) (“The law of Article III standing, which is built on 
separation-of-powers principles, serves to prevent the 
judicial process from being used to usurp the powers of the 
political branches ”); Warth v. Seldin, 422 U.  S. 490, 500 
(1975) ( without standing requirements “courts would be 
called upon to decide abstract questions of wide public 
significance even though other governmental institutions 
may be more competent to address the questions”); Hein v. 
Freedom From Religion Foundation, Inc. , 551 U.  S. 587, 
635–636 (2007) (Scalia , J. , con curring in judgment) (“
 ‘To 
permit a complainant who has no concrete injury to re-
quire a court to rule on important constitutional issues in 
the abstract would create the potential for abuse of the 
judicial process, distort the role of the Judiciary in its 
relationship to the Executive and the Legislature and open 
the Judiciary to an arguable charge of providing “govern-
ment by injunction”
 ’ ”). 
 Proceeding on these principles, this Court has held 
offense alone insufficient to convey standing in analo-
gous—and arguably more sympathetic —circumstances.  
Take Allen v. Wright, 468 U.  S. 737 (1984), whe re the 
parents of African-American schoolchildren sued to compel 

4 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
GORSUCH, J., concurring in judgment 
the Internal Revenue Service to deny tax-exempt status to 
schools that discriminated on the basis of race.  The pa r-
ents claimed that their children suffered a “stigmatic 
injury, or denigratio n” when the government supported 
racially discriminatory institutions.  Id., at  754.  But this 
Court refused to entertain the case, reasoning that stan d-
ing extends “only to those persons who are personally 
denied equal treatment by the challenged discrimin atory 
conduct.”  Id., at 755 (internal quotation marks omitted).  
Now put the teachings there alongside the Association’s 
standing theory here and you get this utterly unjustifiable 
result: An African -American offended by a Confederate 
flag atop a state capitol would lack standing to sue under 
the Equal Protection Clause, but an atheist who is offended 
by the cross on the same flag  could sue under the Es - 
tablishment Clause.  Who really thinks that could be the 
law?  See Brief for Becket Fund for Religious Liberty as 
Amicus Curiae 34–35. 
 Consider, as well, the Free Exercise Clause.  In Harris 
v. McRae, 448 U. S. 297 (1980), this Court denied standing 
to a religious group that raised a free exercise challenge to 
federal restrictions on abortion funding because “the 
plaintiffs had ‘not contended that the [statute in question] 
in any way coerce[d] them as individuals in the practice of 
their religion.’
 ”  Id., at 321, n. 24.  Instead, the Court has 
held, a free exercise plaintiff generally must “show that 
his good -faith religious beliefs are hampered before he 
acquires standing to attack a statute under the Free-
Exercise Clause.”  Braunfeld v. Brown, 366 U. S. 599, 615 
(1961) (Brennan, J., concurring and dissenting).  And if 
standing doctrine has such bite under the Free Exercise 
Clause, it’s difficult to see how it could be as toothless as 
plaintiffs suppose under the neighboring Establishment 
Clause. 
 In fact, this Court has already  expressly rejected “o f-
fended observer” standing under the Establishment 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 5 
 
GORSUCH, J., concurring in judgment 
Clause itself.  I n Valley Forge Christian College v. Ameri-
cans United for Separation of Church and State , Inc., 454 
U. S. 464 (1982),  the plaintif fs objected to a transfer of 
property from the federal government to a religious col-
lege, an action they had learned about through a news 
release.  T his Court had little trouble concluding that the 
plaintiffs lacked standing to challenge the transfer , e x-
plaining that “t he psychological consequence presumably 
produced by observation of conduct with which one dis - 
agrees” is not an injury-in-fact “sufficient to confer standing 
under Art. III.”  Id. , at 485.  To be sure, this Court h as 
sometimes resolved Establishment Clause challenges to 
religious displays on the merits without first addressing 
standing.  But as this Court has held, its own failure  to 
consider standing cannot be mistaken as an endorsement 
of it: “ [D]rive-by jurisdiction al rulings of this sort” carry 
“no precedential effect.”  Steel Co.  v. Citizens for Better 
Environment, 523 U. S. 83, 91 (1998). 
 Offended observer standing is deeply inconsistent, too, 
with many other longstanding principles and precedents.  
For example, this Court has consistently ruled that “
 ‘gen-
eralized grievances’ about the conduct of Government” are 
insufficient to confer standing to sue.  Schlesinger v. Re-
servists Comm. to Stop the War , 418 U. S. 208, 217 (1974).  
But if offended observers could bring suit, this rule would 
be rendered meaningless: Who, after all, would have 
trouble recasting a generalized grievance about gover n-
mental action into an “I-take-offense” argument for stand-
ing?  Similarly, this Court has long “adhered to the rule 
that a par ty ‘generally must assert his own legal rights 
and interests, and cannot rest his claim to relief on the 
legal rights or interests of third parties.’  ”  Kowalski  v. 
Tesmer, 543 U.  S. 125, 129 (2004) .  We depart from this 
rule only where the party seeking to invoke the judicial 
power “has a ‘close’ relationship with the person who 
possesses the right” and “there is a ‘hindrance’ to the 

6 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
GORSUCH, J., concurring in judgment 
possessor’s ability to protect his own interests.”  Id., at 
130.  Applying these principles in Kowalski , this Court 
held that attorneys lacked standing to assert the rights of 
indigent defendants.  Id., at 127.  And in Whitmore , we 
rejected a third party’s effort to appeal another person’s 
death sentence.  495 U.  S., at 151.  But if offended obser v-
ers could sue, the attorneys in Kowalski might have sim - 
ply claimed they were “offended” by Michigan’s procedure 
for appointing appellate counsel, and the third party in 
Whitmore could have just said he was offended (as he 
surely was) by the impending execution.  None of this 
Court’s limits on third-party standing would really matter. 
* 
 Offended observer standing cannot be squared with this 
Court’s longstanding teachings about the limits of Article 
III.  Not even today’s dissent seriously attempts to defend 
it.  So at this point you m ight wonder: How did the lower 
courts in this case indulge the plaintiffs’ “offended observer” 
theory of standing?  And why have other lower courts  
done similarly in other cases? 
 The truth is, the fault lies here.  Lower courts invented 
offended observer standing for Establishment Clause 
cases in the 1970s in response to this Court’s decision in 
Lemon v. Kurtzman, 403 U.  S. 602 (1971) .  Lemon  held 
that whether governmental action violates the Establis h-
ment Clause depends on its (1)  purpose, (2)  effect, and 
(3) potential to “
 ‘excessive[ly] . . . entangl[e]’ ” church and 
state, id., at 613, a standard this Court came to unde r-
stand as prohibiting the government from doing anything 
that a “
 ‘reasonable observer’ ” might perceive as “endor s-
ing” religion, County of Allegheny v. American Civil Liber-
ties Union, Greater Pittsburgh Chapter, 492 U.  S. 573, 
620–621 (1989) (opinion of Blackmun, J.); id. , a t 631 
(O’Connor, J., concurring in part and concurring in judg-
ment).  And lower courts reasoned that, if the Establis h-

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 7 
 
GORSUCH, J., concurring in judgment 
ment Clause forbids anything a reasonable observer would 
view as an endorsement of religion, then such an observer 
must be able to sue.  Moore v. Bryant, 853 F.  3d 245, 250 
(CA5 2017).  Here alone, lower courts concluded, though 
never with this Court’s approval, an observer’s offense 
must “suffice to make an Establishment Clause claim 
justiciable.”  Suhre v. Haywood Cty., 131 F. 3d 1083, 1086 
(CA4 1997). 
 As today’s plurality rightly indicates in Part II–A, how-
ever, Lemon was a misadventure.  It sought a “grand 
unified theory” of the Establishment Clause but left us 
only a mess.  See ante, at 24 (plurality opinion).  How 
much “purpose” to promote religion is too much (are Su n-
day closing laws that bear multiple purposes, religious 
and secular, problematic)?  How much “effect” of advan c-
ing religion is tolerable (are even incidental effects disa l-
lowed)?  What does the “entanglement” test add to these 
inquiries?  Even beyond all that, how “reasonable” must 
our “reasonable observer” be, and what exactly qualifies as 
impermissible “endorsement” of religion in a country 
where “In God We Trust” appears on the coinage, the eye 
of God appears in its Great Seal, and we celebrate 
Thanksgiving as a national holiday (“to Whom are thanks 
being given”)?  Harris v. Zion, 927 F.  2d 1401, 1423 (CA7 
1991) (Easterbrook, J., dissenting).  Nearly half a century 
after Lemon and, the truth is, no one has any idea about 
the answers to these questions.  As the plurality doc u-
ments, our “doctrine [is] in such chaos” that lower courts 
have been “free to reach almost any result in almost any 
case.”  McConnell, Religious Participation in Public Pr o-
grams: Religious Freedom at a Crossroads, 59 U. Chi. 
L. Rev. 115, 119 (1992).  Scores of judges have pleaded 
with us to retire Lemon, scholars of all stripes have crit i-
cized the doctrine, and a majority of this Court has long 
done the same.  Ante , at 14–15 (plurality opinion).  Today, 
not a single Member of the Court even tries to defend 

8 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
GORSUCH, J., concurring in judgment 
Lemon against these criticisms —and they don’t because 
they can’t.  As Justice Kennedy explained, Lemon  is 
“flawed in its fundamentals,” has proved “unworkable in 
practice,” and is “inconsistent with our history and our 
precedents.”  County of Allegheny , 492 U.  S., at 655, 669 
(opinion concurring in judgment in part and dissenting in 
part). 
 In place of Lemon, Part II –D of the plurality opinion 
relies on a more modest, historically sensitive approach, 
recognizing that “the Establishment Clause must be i n-
terpreted by reference to historical practices and unde r-
standings.”  Ante, at 25  (quoting Town of Greece v. Gallo-
way, 572 U.  S. 565, 576 (2014) (internal quotation marks 
omitted); see also ante, at 1– 4 ( K
AVANAUGH, J., concu r-
ring).  So, by way of example, the plurality explains that a 
state legislature may permissibly begin each session with 
a prayer by an offi cial chaplain because “Congress for 
more than 200 years had opened its sessions with a prayer 
and . . . many state legislatures had followed suit.”  Ante, 
at 25 (discussing Marsh v. Chambers, 463 U.  S. 783 
(1983), and Town of Greece, 572 U.  S. 565).  The c onstitu-
tionality of a practice doesn’t depend on some artificial 
and indeterminate three- part test; what matters, the 
plurality reminds us, is whether the challenged practice 
fits “
 ‘within the tradition’ ” of this country.  Ante, at 27 
(citing Town of Greece, 572 U. S., at 577). 
 I agree with all this and don’t doubt that the monument 
before us is constitutional in light of the nation’s trad i-
tions.  But then the plurality continues on to suggest that 
“longstanding monuments, symbols, and practices” are 
“presumpt[ively]” constitutional.  Ante, at 16 .  And about 
that, it’s hard not to wonder: How old must a monument, 
symbol, or practice be to qualify for this new presumption?  
It seems 94 years is enough, but what about the Star of 
David monument erected in South Carolina in 2001 to 
commemorate victims of the Holocaust, or the cross that 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 9 
 
GORSUCH, J., concurring in judgment 
marines in California placed in 2004 to honor their co m-
rades who fell during the War on Terror?  And where 
exactly in the Constitution does this presumption come 
from?  The plurality does not say, nor does it even explain 
what work its presumption does.  To the contrary, the 
plurality proceeds to analyze the “presumptively” constitu-
tional memorial in this case for its consistency with “
 ‘his-
torical practices and understandings’  ” under Marsh and 
Town of Greece—exactly the same approach that the 
plurality, quoting Town of Greece , recognizes “
 ‘must be’ ” 
used whenever we interpret the Establishment Clause.  
Ante, at 25; see also ante , at 2–4 (KAVANAUGH, J., concur-
ring).  Though the plurality does not say so in as many 
words, the message for our lower court colleagues seems 
unmistakable: Whether a monument, symbol, or practice 
is old or new, apply Town of Greece , not Lemon.  Indeed, 
some of our colleagues recognize this i mplication and 
blanch at its prospect.  See ante , at 2 –3 (B
REYER, J., co n-
curring); ante, at 1 –2 ( KAGAN, J., concurring in part) 
(declining to join Parts II –A & II– D); post, at 2 , n. 2 
(GINSBURG, J., dissenting).  But if that’s the real message 
of the plura lity’s opinion, it seems to me exactly right —
because what matters when it comes to assessing a mo n-
ument, symbol, or practice isn’t its age but its compliance 
with ageless principles.  The Constitution’s meaning is 
fixed, not some good -for-this-day-only coupon, and a prac-
tice consistent with our nation’s traditions is just as pe r-
missible whether undertaken today or 94 years ago. 
* 
 With Lemon now shelved, little excuse will remain for 
the anomaly of offended observer standing, and the gaping 
hole it tore in standing doctrine in the courts of appeals 
should now begin to close.  Nor does this development 
mean colorable Establishment Clause violations will lack 
for proper plaintiffs.  By way of example only, a public 

10 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
GORSUCH, J., concurring in judgment 
school student compelled to recite a prayer will still have 
standing to sue.  See School Dist. of Abington Township v . 
Schempp, 374 U.  S. 203, 224, n.  9 (1963).  So will persons 
denied public office because of their religious affiliations or 
lack of them.  And so will those who are denied gover n-
ment benefits because they do not practice a favored reli-
gion or any at all.  Texas Monthly, Inc. v . Bullock , 489 
U. S. 1, 7–8 (1989) (plurality opinion).  On top of all that, 
States remain free to supply other forms of relief co n-
sistent with their own laws and constitutions. 
 Abandoning offended observer standing will mean only 
a return to the usual demands of Article III,  requiring a 
real controversy with real impact on real persons to make 
a federal case out of it.  Along the way, this will bring with 
it the welcome side effect of rescuing the federal judiciary 
from the sordid business of having to pass aesthetic jud g-
ment, one by one, on every public display in this country 
for its perceived capacity to give offense.  It’s a business 
that has consumed volumes of the federal reports, invited 
erratic results, frustrated generations of judges, and f o-
mented “the very kind of religiously based divisiveness 
that the Establishment Clause seeks to avoid.”  Van Orden 
v. Perry, 545 U. S. 677, 704 (2005) (B
REYER, J., concurring 
in judgment).  Courts applying Lemon ’s test have upheld 
Ten Commandment displays and demanded their removal; 
they have allowed memorial crosses and insisted that they 
be razed; they have permitted Christmas displays and 
pulled the plug on them; and they have pondered seemingly 
endlessly the inclusion of “In God We Trust” on currency 
or similar language in our Pl edge of Allegiance.  No one 
can predict the rulings—but one thing is certain: Between 
the challenged practices and the judicial decisions, just 
about everyone will wind up offended. 
 Nor have we yet come close to exhausting the potential 
sources of offense and federal litigation Lemon invited, for 
what about the display of the Ten Commandments on the 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 11 
 
GORSUCH, J., concurring in judgment 
frieze in our own courtroom or on the doors leading into it?  
Or the statues of Moses and the Apostle Paul next door in 
the Library of Congress?  Or the depictions of the Ten 
Commandments found in the Justice Department and the 
National Archives?  Or the crosses that can be found in 
the U. S. Capitol building?  And all that just takes us mere 
steps from where we sit.  In light of today’s decision, we 
should be done with this business, and our lower court 
colleagues may dispose of cases like these on a motion to 
dismiss rather than enmeshing themselves for years in 
intractable disputes sure to generate more heat than light. 
* 
 In a large and diverse country, offense can be easily 
found.  Really, most every governmental action probably 
offends somebody.  No doubt, too, that offense can be 
sincere, sometimes well taken, even wise.  But recourse for 
disagreement and offense does not lie in federal litigation.  
Instead, in a society that holds among its most cherished 
ambitions mutual respect, tolerance, self -rule, and dem o-
cratic responsibility, an “offended viewer ” may “avert his 
eyes,” Erznoznik v. Jacksonville, 422 U. S. 205, 212 (1975), 
or pursue a political solution.  Today’s decision represents 
a welcome step toward restoring this Court’s recognition of 
these truths, and I respectfully concur in the judgment. 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 1 
 
GINSBURG, J., dissenting 
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES  
_________________ 
Nos. 17–1717 and 18– 18 
_________________ 
THE AMERICAN LEGION, ET AL., PETITIONERS 
17–1717 v. 
AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSOCIATION, ET AL.; AND 
 
MARYLAND-NATIONAL CAPITAL PARK AND 
PLANNING COMMISSION, PETITIONER 
18–18 v. 
AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSOCIATION, ET AL. 
ON WRITS OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF 
APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT 
[June 20, 2019]
 J USTICE GINSBURG, with whom J USTICE SOTOMAYOR 
joins, dissenting. 
 An immense Latin cross stands on a traffic island at the 
center of a busy three-way intersection in Bladensburg, 
Maryland.1  “[M]onumental, clear, and bold” by day, App. 
914, the cross looms even larger illuminated against the 
night-time sky.  Known as the Peace Cross, the monument 
was erected by private citizens in 1925 to honor local 
soldiers who lost their lives in World War I.  “[T]he town’s 
most prominent symbol” was rededicated in 1985 and is 
now said to honor “the sacrifices made [in] all wars,” id., at 
868 (internal quotation marks omitted), by “all veterans,” 
id., at 195.  Both the Peace Cross and the traffic island are 
owned and maintained by the Maryland-National Capital 
Park and Planning Commission (Commission), an agency 
of the State of Maryland. 
—————— 
1 A photograph of the monument and a map showing its location are 
reproduced in the Appendix, infra, at 19. 

2 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
GINSBURG, J., dissenting 
 Decades ago, this Court recognized that the Establis h-
ment Clause of the First Amendment to the Constitution 
demands governmental neutrality among religious faiths, 
and between religion and nonreligion.  See Everson  v. 
Board of Ed. of Ewing , 330 U. S. 1, 15 (1947).  Numerous 
times since, the Court has reaffirmed the Constitution’s 
commitment to neutrality.  Today the Court erodes that 
neutrality commitment, diminishing precedent designed to 
preserve individual liberty and civic harmony in favor of a 
“presumption of constitutionality for longstanding monu-
ments, symbols, and practices.”  Ante, at 16 (plurality 
opinion).
2 
 The Latin cross is the foremost symbol of the Christian 
faith, embodying the “central theological claim of Christi-
anity: that the son of God died on the cross, that he rose 
from the dead, and that his death and resurrection offer 
the possibility of eternal life.”  Brief for Baptist Joint 
Committee for Religious Liberty et  al. as Amici Curiae 7 
(Brief for Amici Christian and Jewish Organizations).  
Precisely because the cross symbolizes these sectarian 
beliefs, it is a common marker for the graves of Christian 
soldiers.  For the same reason, using the cross as a war 
memorial does not transform it into a secular symbol, as 
the Courts of Appeals have uniformly recognized.  See 
—————— 
2 Some of my colleagues suggest that the Court’s new presumption 
extends to all governmental displays and practices, regardless of their 
age.  See ante,  at 3 ( KAVANAUGH, J., concurring); ante, at 6 ( THOMAS, J., 
concurring in judgment); ante, at 9 ( GORSUCH, J., concurring in jud g-
ment).  But see ante,  at 2 ( BREYER, J., joined by KAGAN, J., concurring) 
(“ ‘[A] more contemporary state effort’ to put up a religious display is 
‘likely to prove divisive in a way that [a] longstanding, pre -existing 
monument [would] n ot.’ ”).  I read the Court’s opinion to mean what it 
says: “[R]etaining established, religiously expressive monuments, 
symbols, and practices is quite different from erecting or adopting new 
ones,” ante, at 21, and, consequently, only “longstanding monumen ts, 
symbols, and practices” enjoy “a presumption of constitutionality,” id., 
at 16 (plurality opinion). 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 3 
 
GINSBURG, J., dissenting  
infra, at 10–11, n. 10.  Just as a Star of David is not suit - 
able to honor Christians who died serving their country, so 
a cross is not suitable to honor those of other faiths who 
died defending the ir nation.  Soldiers of all faiths “are 
united by their love of country, but they are not united by 
the cross.”  Brief for Jewish War Veterans of the United 
States of America, Inc., as Amicus Curiae 3 (Brief for 
Amicus Jewish War Veterans). 
 By maintaining the Peace Cross on a public highway, 
the Commission elevates Christianity over other faiths, 
and religion over nonreligion.  Memorializing the service 
of American soldiers is an “admirable and unquestionably 
secular” objective.  Van Orden v. Perry, 545 U. S. 677, 715 
(2005) (Stevens, J., dissenting).  But the Commission does 
not serve that objective by displaying a symbol that bears 
“a starkly sectarian message.”  Salazar v. Buono, 559 U. S. 
700, 736 (2010) (Stevens, J., dissenting). 
I 
A 
 The First Amendme nt commands that the government 
“shall make no law” either “respecting an establishment of 
religion” or “prohibiting the free exercise thereof.”  See 
Everson, 330 U. S., at 15.  Adoption of these complemen-
tary provisions followed centuries of “turmoil, civil strife, 
and persecutio[n], generated in large part by established 
sects determined to maintain their absolute political and 
religious supremacy.”  Id, at 8–9.  Mindful of that history, 
the fledgling Republic ratified the Establishment Clause, 
in the wor ds of Thomas Jefferson, to “buil[d] a wall of 
separation between church and state.”  Draft Reply to the 
Danbury Baptist Association, in 36 Papers of Thomas 
Jefferson 254, 255 (B. Oberg ed. 2009) (footnote omitted). 
 This barrier “protect[s] the integrity o f individual con-
science in religious matters.” McCreary County  v. Ameri-
can Civil Liberties Union of Ky. , 545 U. S. 844, 876 (2005).  

4 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
GINSBURG, J., dissenting 
It guards against the “anguish, hardship and bitter strife,” 
Engel v. Vitale, 370 U. S. 421, 429 (1962), that can occur 
when “the government weighs in on one side of religious 
debate,” McCreary County , 545 U. S., at 876.  And while 
the “union of government and religion tends to destroy 
government and to degrade religion,” separating the two 
preserves the legitimacy of each.  Engel, 370 U. S., at 431. 
 The Establishment Clause essentially instructs: “[T]he 
government may not favor one religion over another, or 
religion over irreligion.”  McCreary County , 545 U. S., at 
875.  For, as James Madison observed, the government is 
not “a competent Judge of Religious Truth.”  Memorial and 
Remonstrance Against Religious Assessments, 8 Papers of 
James Madison 295, 301 (R. Rutland, W. Rachal, B. Ripel, 
& F. Teute eds. 1973) (Memorial and Remonstrance).  
When the government places its “power,  prestige [or] 
financial support . . . behind a particular religious belief,” 
Engel, 370 U.  S., at 431, the government’s imprimatur 
“mak[es] adherence to [that] religion relevant .  . . to a 
person’s standing in the political community,” County of 
Allegheny v. American Civil Liberties Union, Greater 
Pittsburgh Chapter , 492 U.  S. 573, 594 (1989) (internal 
quotation marks omitted).  Correspondingly, “the indirect 
coercive pressure upon religious minorities to conform to 
the prevailing officially approved religion is plain.”  Engel, 
370 U. S., at 431.  And by demanding neutrality between 
religious faith and the absence thereof, the Establishment 
Clause shores up an individual’s “right to select any reli-
gious faith or none at all.”  Wallace v. Jaffree, 472 U. S. 38, 
53 (1985). 
B 
 In cases challenging the government’s display of a reli-
gious symbol, the Court has tested fidelity to the principle 
of neutrality by asking whether the display has the “effect 
of ‘endorsing’ religion.”  County of Allegheny, 492 U. S., at 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 5 
 
GINSBURG, J., dissenting  
592.  The display fails this requirement if it objectively 
“convey[s] a message that religion or a particular religious 
belief is favored or preferred.”  Id., at 593 (internal quota-
tion marks omitted; emphasis deleted).
3  To make that 
determination, a court must consider “the pertinent facts 
and circumstances surrounding the symbol and its plac e-
ment.”  Buono , 559 U. S., at 721 (plurality opinion); id.,  
at 750– 751 (Stevens, J., dissenting) (quoting plurality 
opinion). 4 
 As I see it, when a cross is displayed on public property, 
the government may be presumed to endorse its religious 
content.  The venue is surely associated with the State; 
the symbol and its meaning are just as surely associated 
exclusively with Christianity.  “It certainly is not common 
for property owners to open up their property [to] mon u-
ments that convey a message with which they do not wish 
to be associated.”  Pleasant Grove City  v. Summum, 555 
U. S. 460, 471 (2009).  To non -Christians, nearly 30% of 
the population of the United States, Pew Research Center, 
America’s Changing Religious Landscape 4 (2015), the 
—————— 
3 JUSTICE GORSUCH’s “no standing” opinion is startling in view of the 
many religious -display cases this Court has resolved on the merits.  
E.g., McCreary County, 545 U.  S. 844; Van Orden, 545 U.  S. 677; Stone 
v. Graham, 449 U.  S. 39 (1980) ( per curiam).  And, if JUSTICE GORSUCH 
is right, three Members of the Court were out of line when they recog-
nized that “[t]he [Establishment] Clause forbids a city to permit the 
permanent erection of a large Latin cross on the roof of city hall,” 
Buono, 559 U.  S., at 715 (opinion of Kennedy, J., joined by R OBERTS, 
C.J., and A LITO, J.) (quoting County of Alleghen y, 492 U.  S., at 661 
(second alteration in original), for no one, according to J USTICE 
GORSUCH, should be heard to complain about such a thing.  But see 
Brief for Law Professors as Amici Curiae (explaining why offended 
observer standing is necessary and proper). 
4 This inquiry has been described by some Members of the Court as 
the “reasonable observer” standard.  See, e.g., Capitol Square Review 
and Advisory Bd . v. Pinette, 515 U. S. 753, 806 (1995) (Stevens, J., 
dissenting); County of Allegheny, 492 U.  S., at 630– 631 (O’Connor, J., 
concurring in part and concurring in judgment). 

6 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
GINSBURG, J., dissenting 
State’s choice to display the cross on public buildings or 
spaces conveys a message of exclusion: It tells them they 
“are outsiders, not full members of the political commu - 
nity,” County of Allegheny, 492 U. S., at 625 (O’Connor, J., 
concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (internal 
quotation marks omitted).  Cf. Van Orden, 545 U.  S., at 
708 (Stevens, J., dissenting) (“The adornment of our public 
spaces with displays of religious symbols” risks “
 ‘of-
fend[ing] nonmembers of the faith being advertised as well 
as adherents who consider the particular advertisement 
disrespectful.’
 ” (quoting County of Allegheny, 492 U. S., at 
651 (Stevens, J., concurring in part and dissenting in 
part))).
5 
 A presumption of endorsement, of course, may be over-
come.  See Buono , 559 U.  S., at 718 (plurality opinion) 
(“The goal of avoiding governmental endorsement does not 
require eradication of all religious symbols in the public 
realm.”).  A display does not run afoul of the neutrality 
principle if its “setting .  . . plausibly indicates” that the 
government has not sought “either to adopt [a] religious 
message or to urge its acceptance by others.”  Van Orden, 
545 U.  S., at 737 (Souter, J., dissenting).  The “typical 
museum setting,” for example, “though not neutralizing 
the religious content of a religious painting, negates any 
message of endorsement of that content.”  Lynch v. Don-
nelly, 465 U. S. 668, 692 (1984) (O’Connor, J., concurring).  
Similarly, when a public school history teacher discusses 
the Protestant Reformation, the setting makes clear that 
—————— 
5 See also Jews and Christians Discussion Group in the Central 
Committee of German Catholics, A Convent and Cross in Auschwitz, in 
The Continuing Agony: From the Carmelite Convent t o the Crosses at 
Auschwitz 231 –232 (A. Berger, H. Cargas, & S. Nowak eds. 2004) (“We 
Christians must appreciate [that] [t]hroughout history many non -
Christians, especially Jews, have experienced the Cross as a symbol of 
persecution, through the Crusades, the Inquisition and the compulsory 
baptisms.”). 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 7 
 
GINSBURG, J., dissenting  
the teacher’s purpose is to educate, not to proselytize.  The 
Peace Cross, however, is not of that genre.  
II 
A 
 “For nearly two millennia,” the Latin cross has been the 
“defining symbol” of Christianity, R. Jensen, The Cross: 
History, Art, and Controversy ix (2017), evoking the foun-
dational claims of that faith.  Christianity teaches that 
Jesus Christ was “a divine Savior” who “illuminate[d] a 
path toward salvation and redemption.”  Lynch, 465 U. S., 
at 708 (Brennan, J., dissenting).  Central to the religion 
are the beliefs that “the son of God,” Jesus Christ, “died on 
the cross,” that “he rose from the dead,” and that “his 
death and resurrection offer the possibility of eternal life.”  
Brief for Amici Christian and Jewish Organizations 7.
6  
“From its earliest times,” Christianity was known as 
“religio crucis—the religion of the cross.”  R. Viladesau, 
The Beauty of the Cross: The Passion of Christ in Theol - 
ogy and the Arts, From the Catacombs to the Eve of the 
Renaissance 7 (2006).  Christians wear crosses, not as an 
ecumenical symbol, but to proclaim their adherence to 
Christianity. 
 An exclusively Christian symbol, the Latin cross is not 
emblematic of an y other faith.  Buono , 559 U. S., at 747 
(Stevens, J., dissenting); Viladesau, supra,  at 7 (“[T]he 
cross and its meaning . . . set Christianity apart from 
other world religions.”).
7  The principal symbol of Christ i-
—————— 
6 Under “one widespread reading of Christian scriptures,” non -
Christians are barred from eternal life and, instead, are condemned to 
hell.  Brief for Amici  Christian and Jewish Organizations 2.  On this 
reading, the Latin cross symbolizes both the promise of salvation and 
the threat of damnation by “divid[ing] the world between the saved and 
the damned.”  Id., at 12. 
7 Christianity comprises numerous denominations.  The term is here 
used to distinguish Christian sects from religions that do not embrace 
the defining tenets of Christianity. 

8 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
GINSBURG, J., dissenting 
anity around the world should not loom over public tho r-
oughfares, suggesting official recognition of that religion’s 
paramountcy. 
B 
 The Commission urges in defense of its monument that 
the Latin cross “is not merely a reaffirmation of Christian 
beliefs”; rather, “when used in the context of a war memo-
rial,” the cross becomes “a universal symbol of the sacrifices 
of those who fought and died.”  Brief for Petitioner  
Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commi s-
sion 34– 35 (Brief for Planning Commission) (internal 
quotation marks omitted).  See also Brief for United States 
as Amicus Curiae 25 (The Latin cross is “a Christian 
symbol . . . [b]ut it is also ‘a symbol often used to honor 
and respect [soldiers’] heroic acts.’
 ” (quoting Buono, 559 
U. S., at 721 (plurality opinion); some internal quotat ion 
marks omitted)). 
 The Commission’s “[a]ttempts to secularize what is 
unquestionably a sacred [symbol] defy credibility and 
disserve people of faith.”  Van Orden, 545 U.  S., at 717 
(Stevens, J., dissenting).  See, e.g., Brief for Amici  Chris-
tian and Jew ish Organizations 7 (“For Christians who 
think seriously about the events and message that the 
cross represents, [the Commission’s] claims are deeply 
offensive.”).  The asserted commemorative meaning of the 
cross rests on —and is inseparable from —its Christ ian 
meaning: “the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and the redeem-
ing benefits of his passion and death,”  specifically, “the 
salvation of man.”  American Civil Liberties Union of 
Illinois v. St. Charles , 794 F.  2d 265, 273 (CA7 1986) 
(internal quotation marks omitted). 
 Because of its sacred meaning, the Latin cross has been 
used to mark Christian deaths since at least the fourth 
century.  See Jensen, supra,  at 68–69.  The cross on a 
grave “says that a Christian is buried here,” Brief for 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 9 
 
GINSBURG, J., dissenting  
Amici Christian and Jewi sh Organizations 8, and “co m-
memorates [that person’s death] by evoking a conception 
of salvation and eternal life reserved for Christians,” Brief 
for Amicus Jewish War Veterans 7.  As a commemorative 
symbol, the Latin cross simply “makes no sense apart from 
the crucifixion, the resurrection, and Christianity’s prom-
ise of eternal life.”  Brief for Amici Christian and Jewish 
Organizations 8.8 
 The cross affirms that, thanks to the soldier’s embrace 
of Christianity, he will be rewarded with eternal life.  Id., 
at 8–9.  “To say that the cross honors the Christian war 
dead does not identify a secular meaning of the cross; it 
merely identifies a common application of the religious 
meaning.”  Id., at 8.  Scarcely “a universal symbol of sacri-
fice,” the cross is “the symbol of one particular sacrifice.”  
Buono, 559 U. S., at 748, n. 8 (Stevens, J., dissenting).
9 
—————— 
8 The Court sets out familiar uses of the Greek cross, including the 
Red Cross and the Navy Cross, ante,  at 3, 22, and maintains that, 
today, they carry no religious message.  But because the Latin cross has 
never shed its Christian character, its commemorative meaning is 
exclusive to Christians.  The Court recognizes as much in suggesting 
that the Peace Cross features the Latin cross for the same reason “why 
Holocaust memorials invariably include Stars of David”: those sectarian 
“symbols .  . . signify what death meant for those who are memoria l-
ized.”  Ante, at 30.  
9 Christian soldiers have drawn parallels between their experiences 
in war and Jesus’s suffering and sacrifice.  See , e.g., C. Dawson, Living 
Bayonets: A Record of the Last Push 19 –20 (1919) (upon finding a 
crucifix strewn among rubble, a soldier serving in World War I wrote 
home that Jesus Christ “seem[ed] so like ourselves in His lonely and 
unhallowed suffering”).  This comparison has been portrayed by artists, 
see, e.g., 7 Encyclopedia of Religion 4348 (2d ed. 2005) (painter George 
Rouault’s 1926 Miserere series “compares Christ’s suffering with 
twentieth-century experiences of human sufferings in war”), and 
documented by historians, see, e.g. , R. Schweitzer, The Cross and the 
Trenches: Religious Faith and Doubt Among British and American 
Great War Soldiers 28 –29 (2003) (given the horrors of trench warfare, 
“[t]he parallels that soldiers saw between their suffering and  Christ’s 
make their identification with Jesus both understandable and revea l-

10 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
GINSBURG, J., dissenting 
 Every Court of Appeals to confront the question has 
held that “[m]aking a . . . Latin cross a war memorial does 
not make the cross secular,” it “makes the war memorial 
sectarian.”  Id., at 747.10  See also Separation of Church 
—————— 
ing”); Lemay, Politics in the Art of War: The American War Cemeteries, 
38 Int’l J. Mil. History & Historiography 223, 225 (2018) (“[T]he [cross] 
grave markers assert the absolute valour and Christ-like heroism of the 
American dead . . . .”). 
10 See 874 F.  3d 195, 207 (CA4 2017) (case below) (“Even in the m e-
morial context, a Latin cross serves not .  . . as a generic symbol of 
death, but rather a Christian symbol of the death of Jesus  Christ.”); 
American Atheists, Inc. v. Davenport, 637 F. 3d 1095, 1122 (CA10 2010) 
(“[A] memorial cross is not a generic symbol of death; it is a Christian  
symbol of death that signifies or memorializes the death of a Chris-
tian.”); Trunk v. San Diego, 629 F. 3d 1099, 1102 (CA9 2011) (“Resu r-
rection of this Cross as a war memorial does not transform it into a 
secular monument.”); Separation of Church and State Comm.  v. Eu-
gene, 93 F. 3d 617, 619 (CA9 1996) ( per curiam) (“[T]he City urges that 
the cross is no l onger a religious symbol but a war memorial.  This 
argument .  . . fails to withstand Establishment Clause analysis.”); 
Gonzales v. North Twp. of Lake Cty. , 4 F. 3d 1412, 1418 (CA7 1993) 
(“[W]e are masters of the obvious, and we know that .  . . the Latin cross 
. . . is ‘[the] unmistakable symbol of Christianity as practiced in this 
country today.’
 ” (quoting Harris v. Zion, 927 F.  2d 1401, 1403 (CA7 
1991)).  See also Jewish War Veterans of the United States v. United 
States, 695 F. Supp. 3, 11 (DC 1988) (“[D ]efendants are unable to cite a 
single federal case where a cross such as the one at issue here has 
survived Establishment Clause scrutiny.”). 
 The Courts of Appeals have similarly concluded that the Latin cross 
remains a Christian symbol when used for oth er purposes.  See, e.g. , 
Robinson v. Edmond, 68 F. 3d 1226, 1232 (CA10 1995) (city seal depic t-
ing the cross) (“The religious significance and meaning of the Latin or 
Christian cross are unmistakable.”); Carpenter v. City and County of 
San Francisco, 93 F.  3d 627, 630 (CA9 1996) (103-foot cross in public 
park) (“The Latin cross .  . . [‘]represents with relative clarity and 
simplicity the Christian message of the crucifixion and resurrection of 
Jesus Christ, a doctrine at the heart of Christianity.’
 ”); American Civil 
Liberties Union of Ill. v. St. Charles, 794 F. 2d 265, 272– 273 (CA7 1986) 
(35-foot cross displayed atop a fire house during the Christmas season) 
(“The cross .  . . is ‘the principal symbol of the Christian religion, re-
calling the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and the redeeming benefits of his 
passion and death.’
 ”); Friedman v. Board of Cty. Comm’rs of Bernalillo 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 11 
 
GINSBURG, J., dissenting  
and State Comm. v. Eugene, 93 F. 3d 617, 626 (CA9 1996) 
(O’Scannlain, J., concurring in result) (“[T]he City’s use of 
a cross to memorialize the war dead may lead observers to 
believe that the City has chosen to honor only Christian 
veterans.”). 
 The Peace Cross is no exception.  That was evident from 
the start.  At the dedication ceremony, the keynote speaker 
analogized the sacrifice of the honored soldiers to that  
of Jesus Christ, calling the Peace Cross “symbolic of Ca l-
vary,” App. 449, where Jesus was crucified.  Local report-
ers vari ously described the monument as “[a] mammoth 
cross, a likeness of the Cross of Calvary, as described in 
the Bible,” id., at 428; “a monster [C]alvary cross,” id., at 
431; and “a huge sacrifice cross,” id., at 439.  The charac-
ter of the monument has not changed with the passage of 
time. 
C 
 The Commission nonetheless urges that the Latin cross 
is a “well-established” secular symbol commemorating, in 
particular, “military valor and sacrifice [in] World War I.”  
Brief for Planning Commission 21.  Calling up ima ges of 
United States cemeteries overseas showing row upon row 
of cross-shaped gravemarkers, id., at 4–8; see ante, at 4–5, 
21–22; Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 26, the 
Commission overlooks this reality: The cross was never 
perceived as an appropriate headstone or memorial  
for Jewish soldiers and others who did not adhere to 
Christianity. 
1 
 A page of history is worth retelling.  On November 11, 
1918, the Great War ended.  Bereaved families of Amer i-
—————— 
Cty., 781 F. 2d 777, 782 (CA10 1985) (county seal depicting Latin cross) 
(“[T]he seal .  . . conveys a strong impression to the average obs erver 
that Christianity is being endorsed.”). 

12 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
GINSBURG, J., dissenting 
can soldiers killed in the war sought to locate the bodies of 
their loved ones, and then to decide what to do with their 
remains.  Once a soldier’s body was identified, families 
could choose to have the remains repatriated to the United 
States or buried overseas in one of several American mili-
tary cemet eries, yet to be established.  Eventually, the 
remains of 46,000 soldiers were repatriated, and those of 
30,000 soldiers were laid to rest in Europe.  American 
Battle Monuments Commission, Annual Report to the 
President of the United States Fiscal Year 192 5, p. 5 
(1926) (ABMC Report). 
 While overseas cemeteries were under development, the 
graves of American soldiers in Europe were identified by 
one of two temporary wooden markers painted white.  
Christian soldiers were buried beneath the cross; the 
graves o f Jewish soldiers were marked by the Star of 
David.  See L. Budreau, Bodies of War: World War I and 
the Politics of Commemoration in America, 1919–1933, p. 
120 (2010).  The remains of soldiers who were neither 
Christian nor Jewish could be repatriated to t he United 
States for burial under an appropriate headstone.
11 
 When the War Department began preparing designs for 
permanent headstones in 1919, “no topic managed to stir 
more controversy than the use of religious symbolism.”  
Id., at 121–122.  Everyone inv olved in the dispute, how - 
ever, saw the Latin cross as a Christian symbol, not as a 
universal or secular one.  To achieve uniformity, the War 
Department initially recommended replacing the temp o-
—————— 
11 For unidentified soldiers buried overseas, the American Battle 
Monuments Commission (ABMC) used the cross and the Star of David 
markers “in ‘proportion of known Jewish dead to know[n] Christians.’ ”  
App. 164 .  The ABMC later decided that “all unidentified graves would 
be marked with a [c]ross.”  Id., at 164, n. 21.  This change was prompted 
by “fear [that] a Star of David would be placed over an [u]nknown 
Christian,” not by the belief that the cross had become a universal 
symbol.  Ibid. 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 13 
 
GINSBURG, J., dissenting  
rary sectarian markers with plain marble slabs rese m-
bling “those designed for the national cemeteries in the 
United States.”  Van Duyne, Erection of Permanent  
Headstones in the American Military Cemeteries in  
Europe, The Quartermaster Review (1930) (Quartermaster 
Report). 
 The War Department’s recommendation angered promi-
nent civil organizations, including the American Legion 
and the Gold Star associations: the United States, they 
urged, ought to retain both the cross and Star of David.  
See ibid.; Budreau, supra, at 123.  In supporting sectarian 
markers, these groups were joined by the American Battle 
Monuments Commission (ABMC), a newly created ind e-
pendent agency charged with supervising the establis h-
ment of overseas cemeteries.  ABMC Report 57.  Congress 
weighed in by directing the War Department to erect 
headstones “of such design and material as may be agreed 
upon by the Secretary of War and the American Battle 
Monuments Commission.”  Ibid. (internal quotation marks 
omitted).  In 1924, the War Department approved the 
ABMC’s “designs for a Cross and Star of David .”  Quar-
termaster Report; ABMC Report 57.
12 
 Throughout the headstone debate, no one doubted that 
the Latin cross and the Star of David were sectarian 
gravemarkers, and therefore appropriate only for soldiers 
who adhered to those faiths.  A committee convened by the 
War Department composed of representatives from “seven 
prominent war -time organizations” as well as “religious 
bodies, Protestant, Jewish, [and] Catholic” agreed “unan-
imous[ly] . . . that marble crosses be placed on the graves 
of all Christian  American dead buried abroad, and that 
the graves of the Jewish American dead be marked by the 
six-pointed star.”  Durable Markers in the Form of Crosses 
—————— 
12 A photograph depicting the two headstones is reproduced in the 
Appendix, infra, at 21. 

14 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
GINSBURG, J., dissenting 
for Graves of American Soldiers in Europe, Hearings 
before the Committee on Military Affairs of the House of 
Representatives, 68th Cong., 1st Sess., 24 (1924) (empha-
sis added).  The Executive Director of the Jewish Welfare 
Board stated that “if any religious symbol is erected over 
the graves, then Judaism should have its symbol over the 
graves of its dead.”  Id., at 19.  Others expressing views 
described the Latin cross as the appropriate symbol to 
“mar[k] the graves of the Christian heroes of the American 
forces.”  Id., at 24 (emphasis added).  As stated by the 
National Catholic War Council, “the sentiment and desires 
of all Americans, Christians and Jews alike, are one”: 
“They who served us in life should be honored, as they 
would have wished, in death.”  Ibid.
13 
 Far more crosses than Stars of David, as one would 
expect, line the grounds of American cemeteries overseas, 
for Jews composed only 3% of the United States popul a-
tion in 1917.  J. Fredman & L. Falk, Jews in American 
Wars 100 (5th ed. 1954).  Jews accounted for nearly 6% of 
U. S. forces in World War I (in numbers, 250,000), and 
3,500 Jewish soldiers di ed in that war.  Ibid.   Even in 
Flanders Field, with its “ ‘crosses, row on row,’ ” ante, at 5 
(quoting J. McCrae, In Flanders Fields, In Flanders Fields 
and Other Poems 3 (G. P. Putnam’s Sons ed. 1919)), “Stars 
of David mark the graves of [eight American soldiers] of 
Jewish faith,” American Battle Monuments Commission, 
Flanders Field American Cemetery and Memorial Visitor 
Booklet 11.
14 
—————— 
13 As noted, supra, at 12, the bodies of soldiers who were neither 
Christian nor Jewish could be repatriated to the United States and 
buried in a national cemetery (with a slab headstone), Quartermaster 
Report, or in a private cemetery (with a headstone of the family’s 
choosing). 
14 Available at https://www.abmc.gov/sites/default/files/publications/ 
FlandersField_Booklet.pdf (all Internet materials as last visited June 
18, 2019).  For the respective numbers of cross and Star of David 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 15 
 
GINSBURG, J., dissenting  
2 
 Reiterating its argument that the Latin cross is a “uni-
versal symbol” of World War I sacrifice, the Commission 
states th at “40 World War I monuments .  . . built in the 
United States .  . . bear the shape of a cross.”  Brief for 
Planning Commission 8 (citing App. 1130).  This figure 
includes memorials that merely “incorporat[e]” a cross.  
App. 1130.
15  Moreover, the 40 monuments compose only 
4% of the “948 outdoor sculptures commemorating the 
First World War.”  Ibid.  The Court lists just seven fre e-
standing cross memorials, ante, at 6, n. 10, less than 1% of 
the total number of monuments to World War I in the 
United States, see App. 1130.  Cross memorials, in short, 
are outliers.  The overwhelming majority of World War I 
memorials contain no Latin cross.  
 In fact, the “most popular and enduring memorial of the 
[post-World War I] decade” was “[t]he mass -produced 
Spirit of the American Doughboy statue.”  Budreau, Bodies 
of War, at 139.  That statue, depicting a U.  S. infantry-
man, “met with widespread approval throughout Amer i-
can comm unities.”  Ibid.  Indeed, the first memorial to 
World War I erected in Prince George’s County “depict[s] a 
doughboy.”  App. 110–111.  The Peace Cross, as Plaintiffs’ 
expert historian observed, was an “aberration . . . even in 
the era [in which] it was built and dedicated.”  Id., at 123. 
 Like cities and towns across the country, the United 
States military comprehended the importance of “pay[ing] 
equal respect to all members of the Armed Forces who 
perished in the service of our country,” Buono, 559 U. S., 
at 759 (Stevens, J., dissenting), and therefore avoided 
—————— 
headstones, see ABMC, Flanders Field American Cemetery and Mem o-
rial Brochure 2, available at https://www.abmc.gov/sites/default/ 
files/publications/Flanders%20Fiel d_Brochure_Mar2018.pdf. 
15 No other monument in Bladensburg’s V eterans Memorial Park 
displays the Latin cross.  For examples of monuments in the Park, see 
the Appendix, infra, at 20–21. 

16 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
GINSBURG, J., dissenting 
incorporating the Latin cross into memorials.  The con-
struction of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier is illustr a-
tive.  When a proposal to place a cross on the Tomb was 
advanced, the Jewish Welfare Board objected; no cross 
appears on the Tomb.  See App. 167.  In sum, “[t]here is 
simply ‘no evidence .  . . that the cross has been widely 
embraced by’—or even applied to—‘non-Christians as a 
secular symbol of death’ or of sacrifice in military service” 
in World  War I or otherwise.  Trunk  v. San Diego, 629 F. 
3d 1099, 1116 (CA9 2011). 
D 
 Holding the Commission’s display of the Peace Cross 
unconstitutional would not, as the Commission fears, 
“inevitably require the destruction of other cross -shaped 
memorials throu ghout the country.”  Brief for Planning 
Commission 52.  When a religious symbol appears in a 
public cemetery —on a headstone, or as the headstone 
itself, or perhaps integrated into a larger memorial —the 
setting counters the inference that the government seeks 
“either to adopt the religious message or to urge its a c-
ceptance by others.”  Van Orden, 545 U. S., at 737 (Souter, 
J., dissenting).  In a cemetery, the “privately selected re- 
ligious symbols on individual graves are best understood as 
the private speech of each veteran.”  Laycock, Government-
Sponsored Religious Displays: Transparent Rational - 
izations and Expedient Post -Modernism, 61 Case W.  
Res. L. Rev. 1211, 1242 (2011).  See also Summum, 555 
U. S., at 487 (Souter, J., concurring in judgment) (“[T]here 
are circumstances in which government maintenance of 
monuments does not look like government speech at all.  
Sectarian identifications on markers in Arlington Cem e-
tery come to mind.”).  Such displays are “linked to, and 
sho[w] respect for, the individual honoree’s faith and 
beliefs.”  Buono, 559 U. S., at 749, n. 8 (Stevens, J., di s-
senting).  They do not suggest governmental endorsement 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 17 
 
GINSBURG, J., dissenting  
of those faith and beliefs. 16 
 Recognizing that a Latin cross does not belong on a 
public highway or building does not mean the monument 
must be “torn down.”  Ante, at 2 (BREYER, J., concurring); 
ante, at 1 ( GORSUCH, J., concurring in judgment). 17  
“[L]ike the determination of the violation itself,” the 
“proper remedy . . . is necessarily context specific.”  Buono, 
559 U. S., at 755, n. 11 (Stevens, J., dissenting).  In some 
instances, the violation may be cured by relocating the 
monument to private land or by transferring ownership of 
the land and monument to a private party. 
*  *  * 
 In 1790, President Washington visited Newport, Rhode 
Island, “a longtime bastion of religious liberty and the 
home of one of the first communities of American Jews.”  
Town of Greece v. Galloway, 572 U.  S. 565, 636 (2014) 
(K
AGAN, J., dissenting).  In a letter thanking the congrega-
tion for its war m welcome, Washington praised “[t]he 
citizens of the United States of America” for “giv[ing] to 
mankind . . . a policy worthy of imitation”: “All possess 
alike liberty of conscience and immunities of citizenship.”  
Letter to Newport Hebrew Congregation (Au g. 18, 1790), 
in 6 Papers of George Washington 284, 285 (D. Twohig ed. 
1996).  As Washington and his contemporaries were 
—————— 
16 As to the Argonne Cross Memorial and the Canadian Cross of Sa c-
rifice in Arlington National Cemetery, visitors to the cemetery “expec[t] 
to view religious symbols, whether on individual headstones or as 
standalone monuments.”  Brief for Amicus Jewish War Veterans 17. 
17 The Court asserts that the Court of Appeals “ente rtained” the pos-
sibility of “amputating the arms of the cross.”  Ante, at 24.  The appeals 
court, however, merely reported Plaintiffs’ “desired injunctive relief,” 
namely, “removal or demolition of the Cross, or removal of the arms 
from the Cross ‘to form a non -religious slab or obelisk.’
 ”  874 F. 3d, at 
202, n. 7.  See also id., at 212, n.  19 (noting that the parties remained 
“free to explore alternative arrangements that would not offend the 
Constitution”). 

18 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
GINSBURG, J., dissenting 
aware, “some of them from bitter personal experience,” 
Engel, 370 U.  S., at 429, religion is “too personal, too 
sacred, too holy, to permit its ‘unhallowed perversion’ by a 
civil magistrate,” id., at 432 (quoting Memorial and R e-
monstrance).  The Establishment Clause, which preserves 
the integrity of both church and state, guarantees that 
“however . . . individuals worship, they will count  as full 
and equal American citizens.”  Town of Greece, 572 U. S., 
at 615 ( KAGAN, J., dissenting).  “If the aim of the Esta b-
lishment Clause is genuinely to uncouple government 
from church,” the Clause does “not permit . . . a display of 
th[e] character” of  Bladensburg’s Peace Cross.  Capitol 
Square Review and Advisory Bd.  v. Pinette, 515 U. S. 753, 
817 (1995) (GINSBURG, J., dissenting). 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 19 
 
GINSBURG, J., dissenting  
APPENDIX 
 
The Bladensburg Peace Cross.  App. 887. 
 
 
Map showing the location of the Peace Cross.  App. 1533.  
Appendix to opinion of GINSBURG, J. 

20 AMERICAN LEGION v. AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSN. 
  
GINSBURG, J., dissenting 
 
 
The World War II Memorial in  
Veterans Memorial Park.  App. 891. 
 
 
Plaque of the World War II Memorial.  App. 891. 
 
  
Appendix to opinion of GINSBURG, J. 

 Cite as: 588 U. S. ____ (2019) 21 
 
GINSBURG, J., dissenting  
 
 
The Korea-Vietnam Veterans Memorial in  
Veterans Memorial Park.  App. 894. 
 
 
Headstones in the Henri -Chappelle American  
Cemetery and Memorial in Belgium.  American  
Battle Monuments Commission, Henri -Chappelle 
American Cemetery and Memorial 16 (1986). 
 
Appendix to opinion of GINSBURG, J. 